April	April is the fourth month of the year with 30 days. The name April comes from that Latin word "aperire" which means "to open". This probably refers to growing plants in spring. April begins on the same day of week as "July" in all years and also "January" in leap years. April's flower is the Sweet Pea and its birthstone is the Diamond. The meaning of the Diamond is Innocence. April in poetry. Poets use "April" to mean the end of winter. For example: "April showers bring May flowers."  
August	August is the eighth month of the year. It has 31 days. This month was first called "Sextilis" in Latin, because it was the sixth month in the old Roman calendar. The Roman calendar began in March about 735 BC with Romulus. It was the eighth month when January or February were added to the start of the year by King Numa Pompilius about 700 BC. Or, when those two months were moved from the end to the beginning of the year by the decemvirs about 450 BC (Roman writers disagree). August is named for Augustus Caesar. The month has 31 days because the Roman senate wanted as many days as Julius Caesar's month July. Augustus is in summer, after July and before September. An extra month was moved from February in order to make the of August seem more important. This was undone when the leap year adjustment was made. August's flower is the Gladioli with the birthstone being Peridot.  
Art	The word art is used to describe some activities or creations of human beings that have importance to the human mind, regarding an attraction to the human senses. Therefore, art is made when a human expresses himself or herself. Some art is useful in a practical sense, such as a sculptured clay bowl that one can put things in. Many people disagree on how to define art. Many people say people are driven to make art due to their inner creativity. Art includes drawing, painting, sculpting, photography, performance art, dance, music, poetry, prose and theatre. Definition of art. Some people say that art is a product or item that is made with the intention of stimulating the human senses as well as the human mind or spirit. An artwork is normally judged by how much impact it has on people, the amount of people who can relate to it, and how much people appreciate it. The first and broadest sense of "art" means "arrangement" or "to arrange." In this sense, art is created when someone arranges things found in the world into a new or different design or form; or when someone arranges colors next to each other in a painting to make an image or just to make a pretty or interesting design. History of art. There are sculptures, cave paintings, rock paintings and petroglyphs dating from the Upper Paleolithic era, about thirty five thousand (35,000) years ago, All of the great ancient civilizations, such as Ancient Egypt, India, China, Greece, Rome or Arabia had works and styles of art. In the Middle Ages, most of the art in Europe showed Biblical stories in paintings, stained glass windows, and mosaic tile floors and walls. Islamic art includes geometric patterns, Islamic calligraphy, and architecture. In India and Tibet, painted sculptures, dance, and religious painting were done. In China, arts included jade carving, bronzework, pottery, poetry, calligraphy, music, painting, drama, and fiction. There are many Chinese artistic styles, which are usually named after the ruling dynasty. In Europe, after the Middle Ages, (which some people call the Mediaeval Period or the "Dark Ages") there was a "Renaissance" which means "rebirth". People rediscovered science and artists were allowed to paint subjects other than religious subjects. People like Michelangelo and Leonardo da Vinci still painted religious pictures, but they also now could paint mythological pictures too. These artists also invented linear perspective where things in the distance look smaller than things close up in the picture. This was new because in the Middle Ages people would paint all the figures close up and just overlapping each other. In the late 1800s, artists in Europe, responding to Modernity created many new painting styles such as Classicism, Romanticism, Realism, and Impressionism. The history of twentieth century art includes Expressionism, Fauvism, Cubism, Dadaism, and Surrealism, and Minimalism. Roles of art. In some societies, people think that art belongs to the person who made it. They think that the artist put his or her "talent" into the art. In this view, the art is the property of the artist. In other societies, people think that art belongs to no one. They think that society has put its social capital into the artist and the artist's work. In this view, society is a collective that has made the art, through the artist.  
A	A is 1st letter of the alphabet. A is a usual symbol for a low central vowel, as in father; the English long a (ā) is pronounced as a diphthong of ĕ and y. The corresponding letter of the Greek alphabet is named alpha. Alpha and omega, the last letter of the Greek alphabet, symbolize the beginning and the end, and in the New Testament, Christ. In musical notation the letter is the symbol of a note in the scale, below B and above G. words that start with Aa. 2. The highest mark, as in school. 4. An example or kind of, In or to each; per 3. This is a person you can trust. We paid five dollars a person for the tickets. An apple a day keeps the doctor away.  
Air	Air means Earth's atmosphere. It is the clear gas we live in and breathe in. It has no color or smell. It has weight. Air creates atmosphere pressure. There is no air in the vacuum and cosmos. Air is a mixture of 78.03% Nitrogen, 20.99% Oxygen, 0.94% Argon, 0.03% Carbon Dioxide, 0.01% Hydrogen, 0.00123% Neon, 0.0004% Helium, 0.00005% Krypton, 0.000006% Xenon. Humans need the oxygen in the air to live. In the human body, the lungs give oxygen to the blood, and give back carbon dioxide to the air. Plants and animals also need air to live: it is very important to everyone. The wind is moving air. Air can be polluted from gas, smoke, and ash. Some believe that this pollution may be one of the causes of global warming. Air is also what planes fly through and what politicians are full of. There are three things in air, Nitrogen (79%), oxygen (20%), and other types of gases (1%).  
Autonomous communities of Spain	Spain is divided in 17 parts called autonomous communities. "Autonomous" means that each of these autonomous communities has its own Executive Power, its own Legislative Power and its own Judicial Power. These are similar, but NOT the same, to states in the United States of America, for example. Spain has fifty smaller parts called provinces. In 1978 these parts came together, making the autonomous communities. Before then, some of these provinces were together but were broken. The groups that were together once before are called "historic communities": Galicia, País Vasco and Cataluña. These communities have 2 official languages: Spanish and their own language (gallego or eusquera or catalán). Spain also has two cities on the north coast of Africa: Ceuta and Melilla. They are called "autonomous cities".  
Alan Turing	Alan Mathison Turing (June 23, 1912 - June 7, 1954) was an English mathematician and computer scientist. He was one of the first people to work with modern digital computers. He was the first person to think of using a computer for different things. He told people that computers could run different programs. Turing introduced the idea of a Turing machine in 1936. The machine was imaginary, and ran a set of commands. Turing also thought of the Turing test. During the Second World War, Turing was a main participant in the efforts to break German ciphers. On the basis of cryptanalysis he he helped to break both the Enigma machine and the 42 (a teletype cipher attachment codenamed "Tunny" by the British), and was, for a time, head of Hut 8, the section responsible for reading German naval signals. Alan Turing was a gay man. In 1952, Turing admitted having sex with a man. At that time in England, homosexuality was a crime. He was tried and convicted of this crime in a British court. and was forced to make a choice. He had to choose between going to jail or "chemical castration" (taking female hormones like estrogen to lower his sex drive). He chose the hormones. But this made him impotent (unable to have sex) and made him grow breasts. After suffering these effects for two years, he committed suicide (killed himself) with an apple poisoned with cyanide in 1954. This kind of treatment is now believed to be very wrong, going against medical ethics and international laws of human rights, and malpractice by most doctors.  
Alanis Morissette	Alanis Nadine Morissette (born June 1, 1974) is a Grammy Award-winning Canadian-American singer and songwriter. She was born in Ottawa, Canada. She began singing in Canada as a teenager in 1990. In 1995, she became popular all over the world. As a young child in Canada, Morissette began to act on television, including 5 episodes of the long-running series, "You Can't Do That on Television". Her first album was released only in Canada in 1990. She also acted in several movies, including Kevin Smith's "Dogma", where she played God. About her life. Alanis Morisette's father is French-Canadian. Her mother is from Hungary. She has an older brother, Chad, and a twin brother who is 12 minutes younger than she is. Her parents had worked as teachers at a military base in Lahr, Germany. Jagged Little Pill. Morissette has had many albums. Her 1995 album "Jagged Little Pill" became a very popular album. It has sold over 30 million copies worldwide. The album caused Morissette to win four Grammy Awards. The album "Jagged Little Pill" touched many people.  
Adobe Illustrator	"Adobe Illustrator" is a computer program for making graphic design and illustrations. It is made by Adobe Systems. Pictures created in "Adobe Illustrator" can be made bigger or smaller, and look exactly the same at any size. It works well with the rest of the products with the Adobe name. History. It was first released in 1986 for the Apple Macintosh. The latest version is "Adobe Illustrator CS2", part of Creative Suite 2.  
Andouille	Andouille is a sort of pork sausage. It is spicy (hot in taste) and smoked. There are a lot of sorts, all with different combinations of pork meat, fat, intestines (tubes going to the stomach), and tripe (the wall of the stomach). Andouille sausage first came from France or Germany (no-one is sure), and the most famous sort in the USA is the "Cajun" style. Other sorts are "French andouille" and "German andouille"; they are less spicy than Cajun. Cajun has extra salt, black pepper, and garlic. Andouille makers smoke the sausages over pecan wood and sugar cane for a maximum of seven or eight hours, at about 175 degrees Fahrenheit (80 degrees Celsius).  
Farming	Farming is the growing of crops or keeping of animals by people for food and raw materials. Farming can be called agriculture. Overview. Agriculture is not only growing food for people and animals, but also growing other things like flowers, ornamental plants (plants people use to improve the look of their homes) and nursery plants (plants people buy to grow food on their own farms and land), manure or dung, animal hides (skins or furs), leather, industrial chemicals (starch, ethanol, and plastics), fibers (cotton, wool, hemp, and flax), fuels (methane, biodiesel, biomass), and drugs (biopharmaceuticals, marijuana, opium) Agriculture started at least about 10,000 years ago, but no one knows for sure how old it is. Agriculture and domestication started in the Fertile Crescent in East Africa and in the Middle East. The area called Fertile Crescent is now in the countries of Iraq, Syria, Turkey, Jordan, Lebanon, Israel, and Egypt. Wheat and barley are some of the first crops people grew. People probably started agriculture slowly by planting a few crops, but still gathered (got) many foods from the wild. People may have started farming because the weather and soil began to change. Farming can feed many more people than gathering on the same amount of land. Farming actually started with the first nations. They might have originally kept tethered (tied with a rope) animals for extra food. Scientists have many theories about how farming started but most start with first nations, around the end of the ice age (about ten thousand years ago). Many people live by doing what is called subsistence agriculture, on a small farm. Only the farmer's family lives on the farm. Subsistence agriculture is growing only enough food to feed the farmer, his family, and his animals. Extra food or animals are sold for money or other things the farmer cannot grow. The yield is the amount of food grown on a given amount of land, and the yield is often low. This is because subsistence farmers are generally less educated, and they have less money to buy equipment. When yields are low, forests are sometimes cut to provide new land to grow more food. This is good in the short term, but can be bad for the country and the surrounding environment over many years. In rich countries, farms are often much larger. The yield on farms has gotten bigger in the last one hundred years because farmers are able to grow better varieties of plants, use more fertilizer, use more water, and more easily control weeds and pests. Many farms also use machines, which cut down on the number of people needed to farm the land. This results in fewer farmers in rich countries, but the farms are able to produce more food. This kind of intensive agriculture comes with its own set of problems. Farmers use a lot of chemical fertilizers, pesticides (chemicals that kill bugs), and herbicides (chemicals that kill weeds). These chemicals can pollute the soil or the water. They can also create bugs and weeds that are more resistant to the chemicals, causing outbreaks of these pests. The soil can be damaged by erosion (blowing or washing away), salt buildup, or loss of structure. Irrigation (adding water from rivers) can pollute water and lower the water table. Having fewer farmers also changes society and can make a country less able to feed itself in bad times. Agriculture techniques. Farmers select plants with better yield, taste, and nutritional value. They also chose plants that are more resistance to disease, more tolerant to drought, and those that are easier to harvest. Centuries of careful selection and breeding have had enormous effects on the characteristics of crop plants. The crops produce better yield with other techniques (use of fertilizers, chemical pest control, irrigation). For example, the yields of wheat in France are over 90 ha. In South America, the yields are 20 qx/ha. In Africa, the yields are less than 10 qx/ha. Some companies have been searching for new plants in poor countries, and genetically modify these plants to improve them. They then try to patent the seeds and sell them back to the poor countries. New plants were created with genetic engineering. One example of genetic engineering is modifying a plant to resist an herbicide. Food. It is important for there to be enough food for everyone. The food must also be safe and of good quality. Some people say the food is not always good. They say it is sometimes not safe, because it contains some chemicals. Other people say intensive agriculture is damaging the environment. For this reason, there are several types of agriculture. Traditional agriculture is mostly done in poor countries. Intensive agriculture is mostly done in wealthier countries. It uses pesticides, machinery, chemical fertilizers. Organic farming is using only natural products. Integrated farming is using local resources, and trying to use the waste from one process as a resource in another process. Problems in agriculture. There are some serious problems that face people trying to grow food today. If the plants get a big amount of water they can die, if they get a small amount of water they can dry up and die, so that's why all plants need a perfect amount of water depending on what type of plant it is. Crops. The major crops produced in the world in 2002, are maize (corn), wheat, rice, and cotton. "See also": List of domesticated plants, List of vegetables, List of herbs, List of fruit, List of domesticated animals See also. There are specialty producers who raise less common types of livestock or plants. Aquaculture, the farming of fish, shrimp, and algae, is closely associated with agriculture. Apiculture, the culture of bees, traditionally for honey, increasingly for crop pollination. Animal husbandry means breeding and raising animals for meat or to harvest animal products (like milk, eggs, or wool) on a continual basis.  
Arithmetic	Arithmetic is what we call working with numbers. Arithmetic studies numbers zero, one, two, three, four, five, six, seven, eight, and nine. It is a part of mathematics. The four basic arithmetic operations are addition, subtraction, multiplication, and division. Harder arithmetic includes working with signed numbers, fractions, and decimals, and taking powers and roots. Most people learn arithmetic in grade school, but some people do not learn arithmetic and others forget the arithmetic they learned. Many jobs require a knowledge of arithmetic, and many employers complain that it is hard to find people who know enough arithmetic. A few of the many jobs that require arithmetic include carpenters, plumbers, auto mechanics, accountants, doctors, and nurses. Arithmetic is needed in all areas of mathematics, science, and engineering. Calculators are used to do arithmetic, but if a person needs a calculator to do simple arithmetic, like 2 + 2 = 4, then they will be too slow trying to do arithmetic on the job, just as a person who needs to look up the spelling of a word like "cat" in the dictionary will be too slow to write on the job. A skilled worker has to have a very good knowledge of arithmetic and the English language in order to earn the right salary.  
Addition	Addition is the mathematical way of putting things together. Arithmetic. In arithmetic, addition is finding the total of two or more numbers. The sign for addition is "+". The name for the sign "+" is "plus". Counting examples. For example, there are objects in two groups. The objects are small circles: "o". One group has five of these objects. The other group has 3 of these objects. To find the total number of objects in both groups, the objects can be counted. Another way to find the number of objects in both groups is to add the numbers in each group. Adding. In another counting example, Sally and Bill have 2 children. Sally and Bill get 3 more children. Sally and Bill have added three children to their two children and now have five children. A measurement example. Tom's house<------------300 meters-------------->Bob's house<-----120 meters----->Sally's house The distance from Tom's house to Sally's house can be found by adding the distances already measured. The distance from Tom's house to Bob's house added to the distance from Bob's house to Sally's house is the same as the distance from Tom's house to Sally's house. That is, three hundred meters plus 120 meters. Addition as increase. Addition can also mean to make bigger. Less simple. "Addition" is the arithmetic operation for finding the total, or sum, of two or more numbers. If you are adding three or more terms together, mathematicians call those numbers "summands;" if you are only adding two numbers they are called the "augend" and the "addend." Augend + addend = sum; summand + summand + summand = sum. The addition expression 3 + 8 = 11 is spoken as "three plus eight equals eleven." Adding two numbers together is a dyadic operation. Addition of summands is calculated by putting dyadic additions together. formula_1  
Australia	Australia is a continent in the Southern Hemisphere between the Pacific Ocean and the Indian Ocean. The country called Australia occupies the whole of this continent. Its official name is the Commonwealth of Australia. Australia is the sixth biggest country in the world. Many people also call Australia the "lucky country." The continent of Australia and the islands of New Zealand are called Australasia. The islands nearby are Oceania. Geography. The continent of Australia, including the island of Tasmania, was separated from the other continents of the world many millions of years ago. Because of this, many animals and plants live in Australia that are not found anywhere else. These include animals like the kangaroo, the koala, the emu, the kookaburra, and the platypus. People first arrived in Australia more than 50,000 years ago. These native Australians are called the Australian Aborigines. For the history of Australia, see History of Australia. Most of the Australian colonies, having been settled from Britain, became mostly independent democratic states in the 1850s and all six combined as a federation on 1 January 1901. The first prime minister of Australia was Edmund Barton in 1901. Australia is a member of the United Nations and the Commonwealth of Nations. It is a parliamentary democracy and a constitutional monarchy with the British monarch as Head of State. Regions and cities. Australia has six states, two major mainland territories, and other minor territories. The states are New South Wales, Queensland, South Australia, Tasmania, Victoria, and Western Australia.The two major mainland territories are the Northern Territory and the Australian Capital Territory (ACT). In July 2007 Australia had just over 21 million people. Most Australians live in cities along the coast, such as Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Perth, Darwin, Hobart and Adelaide. The largest inland city is Canberra, which is also the nation's captital. The largest city is Sydney. Although Australia is a very big country, a lot of the land is very dry. The middle of the continent is mostly desert. Only the areas around the east and south coast have enough rain and a suitable climate (not too hot) for many farms and cities. Aboriginal people. The Australian Aboriginal people arrived in Australia more than 50,000 years ago. Until the arrival of English settlers in 1788, the Aboriginal people lived by hunting and gathering food from the land. They managed the land in a way that meant there was usually plenty of food. An example of Aboriginal land management was the Cumberland Plain where Sydney is now. Every few years the Aboriginal people would burn the grass and small trees. This meant that a lot of grass grew back, but not many big trees. Kangaroos like to live on grassy plains, but not in forests. The kangaroos that lived on the plain were a good food supply for the Aboriginal people.The aboriginies would name a person after an animal, and they could not eat that animal to help level out the food population. Aboriginal people did not usually build houses, except huts of grass, leaves and bark. They did not usually build walls or fences, because there were no horses, cows or sheep in Australia that needed to be kept in pens. The only Aboriginal buildings that are known are fish-traps made from stones piled up in the river, and the remains of a few stone huts in Victoria and Tasmania. The Aboriginal people did not use metal or make pottery or use bows and arrows or weave cloth. In some parts of Australia the people used sharp flaked-stone spearheads, but most Aboriginal spears were made of sharply pointed wood. Australia has a lot of trees that have very hard wood that was good for spear making. The Aboriginal people did not think that the land belonged to them. They believed that they had grown from the land, so it was like their mother, and they belonged to the land. Terra Australis. In the 1600s, Dutch merchants traded with the islands of Batavia now (Indonesia), to the north of Australia and several different Dutch ships touched on the coast of Australia. The Dutch Governor, van Diemen, sent Abel Tasman on a voyage of discovery and he found Tasmania, which he named Van Diemen's Land. Its name was later changed to honour the man who discovered it. The British Government were sure that there must be a very large land in the south, that hadn't been explored. They sent Captain James Cook to the Pacific Ocean. His ship, H.M.S. "Endeavour" carried the famous scientists, Sir Joseph Banks and Dr Solander who were going to Tahiti where they would watch the planet Venus pass in front of the Sun. Captain Cook's secret mission was to find "Terra Australis" (the Land of the South). The voyage of discovery was very successful, because they found New Zealand and sailed right around it. Then they sailed westward. At last, a boy, William Hicks, who was up the mast spotted land on the horizon. Captain Cook named that bit of land Point Hicks. They sailed up the coast and Captain Cook named the land that he saw "New South Wales". At last they sailed into a large open bay which was full of fish and stingrays which the sailors speared for food. Joseph Banks and Dr. Solander went ashore and were astonished to find that they did not know what any of the plants or birds or animals that they saw were. They collect hundreds of plants to take back to England. Captain Cook saw the Aboriginal people with their simple way of life. He saw them fishing and hunting and collecting grass seeds and fruit. But there were no houses and no fences. In most parts of the world, people put up a house and a fence or some marker to show that they own the land. But the Aboriginal people didn't own the land in that way. They belonged to the land, like a baby belongs to its mother. Captain Cook went home to England and told the Government that no-one owned the land. This was to cause a terrible problem for the Aboriginal people. Settlement. In the 1700s, in England, there was a very serious problem with the laws. A person could be sentenced to death for stealing a loaf of bread. Many people were hanged for small crimes. But usually they were just thrown in gaol. Often they were sent away to the British Colonies in America. But in 1770, the colonies in America became the United States. They were free from British rule and would not take England's convicts any more. By the 1780s the gaols (jails) of England were so full that convicts were often chained up in rotting old ships. The Government decided to make a settlement in New South Wales and send some of the convicts there. In 1788 the First Fleet of eleven ships set sail from Portsmouth carrying convicts, sailors, marines, a few free settlers and enough food to last for two years. Their leader was Captain Arthur Phillip. They were to make a new colony at the place that Captain Cook had discovered, named Botany Bay, because of the plants found there by the two scientists. Captain Phillip found that Botany Bay was flat and windy. There was not much fresh water. He went with two ships up the coast and sailed into a great harbour which he said was "the finest harbour in the world!" There were many small bays on the harbour so he decided on one which had a good stream of fresh water and some flat shore to land on. On the 26th January, 1788, the flag was raised and New South Wales was claimed in the name of King George III of England, and the new settlement was called Sydney. For the first few years of the settlement, things were very difficult. No-one in the British Government had thought very hard about what sort of convicts should be sent to make a new colony. Nobody had chosen them carefully. There was only one man who was a farmer. There was no-one among the convicts who was a builder, a brickmaker or a blacksmith. No-one knew how to fix the tools when they broke. The cattle all escaped. There were no cooking pots. All the plants were different so no-one knew which ones could be eaten. There was a grave danger that everyone in the new colony would die of starvation. Somehow, the little group of tents with a hut for the Governor, Arthur Phillip, and another hut for the supply of food, grew into a small town with streets, a bridge over the stream, a windmill for grinding grain and warves for ships. By the 1820s there was a fine brick house for the Governor. There was also a hospital and a convict barracks and a beautiful church which are still standing today. Settlements had spread out from Sydney, firstly to Norfolk Island and to Van Diemen's Land (Tasmania), and also up the coast to Newcastle, where coal was discovered, and inland where the missing cattle were found to have grown to a large herd. Spanish Merino sheep had been brought to Sydney, and by 1820, farmers were raising fat lambs for meat and also sending fine wool back to the factories of England. While the settlement was growing in New South Wales, it was also growing in Tasmania. The climate in Tasmania was more like that of in England, and farmers found it easy to grow crops there. Exploration. Because Australia is such a very large land, it was easy to think that it might be able to hold a very large number of people. In the early days of the colony, a great number of explorers went out, searching for good land to settle on. When the settlers looked west from Sydney, they saw a range of mountains which they called the Blue Mountains. They were not very high and didn't look very rugged but for many years no-one could find their way through them. In 1813 Gregory Blaxland, William Lawson and a 17 year-old called William Charles Wentworth crossed the Blue Mountains and found land on the other side which was good for farming. A road was built and the Governor, Lachlan Macquarie founded the town of Bathurst on the other side, 100 miles from Sydney. Some people, like Captain Charles Sturt were sure that there must be a sea in the middle of Australia and set out to find it. Many of the explorers did not prepare very well, or else they went out to explore at the hottest time of year. Some died like Burke and Wills. Ludwig Leichhardt got lost twice. The second time, he was never seen again. Major Thomas Mitchell was one of the most successful explorers. He mapped the country as he went, and his maps remained in use for more than 100 years. He travelled all the way to what is now western Victoria, and to his surprise and annoyance found that he was not the first white person there. The Henty brothers had come from Tasmania, had built themselves a house, had a successful farm and fed the Major and his men on roast lamb and wine. Politics. Australia is made up of six states and two territories. Each of state and territory has its own Parliament and makes its own local laws. The Australian Parliament sits in Canberra and makes laws for the whole country, also known as the Commonwealth or Federation. The Federal government is led by the Prime Minister of Australia, who is the member of Parliament chosen as leader. The current Prime Minister is Kevin Rudd, elected in November 2007. He is the leader of a political party called the Australian Labor Party. The other main party is the Liberal Party The leader of Australia is the Prime Minister, although the Governor-General represents the Queen of Great Britain as head of state. The Governor-General, currently, Her Excellency Ms Quentin Bryce, is chosen by the Prime Minister. Culture. Australia was colonised by people from Britain, but today people from all over the world live there. Australia is multicultural, which means that all its people are helped to keep their different languages, religions and ways of life, while also learning English and joining in with other Australians. The famous artists, musicians, writers, scientists, soldiers, and sports who are Australian include Patrick White who won a Nobel Prize for his writing, the opera singer Dame Joan Sutherland, the pop singer Kylie Minogue, the cricketer Sir Donald Bradman, the swimmer Ian Thorpe and the athlete Cathy Freeman. Almost all culture in Australia, films, opera, music, painting, theatre, dance, and crafts — achieve international recognition. From the time of European settlement, a common theme in Australian art has been the Australian landscape. In Australian literature, one can also find very much writings about the Australian landscape. In 1973, Patrick White was awarded the Nobel Prize in Literature, the only Australian to have achieved this; he is recognised as one of the great English-language writers of the twentieth century. Australia has two public broadcasters (the ABC and the multi-cultural SBS), three commercial television networks, three pay TV services, and numerous public, non-profit television and radio stations. Each major city has daily newspapers, and there are two national daily newspapers, The Australian and The Australian Financial Review. Sport. Sport plays an important part in Australian culture, assisted by a climate that favours outdoor activities; 23.5% Australians over the age of 15 regularly participate in organised sporting activities. At an international level, Australia has particularly strong teams in cricket, hockey, netball, rugby league, rugby union, and performs well in cycling, rowing and swimming. Nationally, other popular sports include Australian rules football, horse racing, soccer and motor racing. Australia has participated in every summer Olympic Games of the modern era, and every Commonwealth Games. Australia has hosted the 1956 and 2000 Summer Olympics, and has ranked among the top five medal-takers since 2000. Australia has also hosted the 1938, 1962, 1982 and 2006 Commonwealth Games. Other major international events held regularly in Australia include the Australian Open, one of the four Grand Slam tennis tournaments, annual international cricket matches and the Formula One Australian Grand Prix. Corporate and government sponsorship of many sports and elite athletes is common in Australia. Televised sport is popular; some of the highest rating television programs include the summer Olympic Games and the grand finals of local and international football competitions.  
American English	American English or U.S. English is the dialect (or rather, a variety of dialects) of English language spoken in the United States. It is different in some ways from other variations of English, such as British English. Historically, many types of American English can be found in old local dialects of England. Many people today know about American English even if they live in a country where another form of English is spoken. This is partly because people hear and read American English via the media, for example CNN television, and the Internet, where the most common form of English is American English. Because people all over the world hear and read American English as well as other versions of English we may find that the English language starts to take on (acquire) new words. English has been changing for centuries, adding new words to its vocabulary. For example, the English language spoken in India & Pakistan, which has more than one billion people, will add more American English words to go along with its British English base and many other words adopted into English usage in India from Indian languages such as Hindi & Urdu. Sometimes people will learn American English as it is spoken in America - for example, in telephone call centers in India and other places, people often learn American English in order to sound more like their customers who call India from America. These people often continue to use American English in everyday life. Many word definitions are different in American English. Most changes in a language start with small things like this - for instance Italian, Spanish, French all came from Latin due to many small changes in use over centuries. See Also. African American Vernacular English  
Aquaculture	Aquaculture is the farming of fish, shrimp, and algae. Aquaculture supplies fish (such as catfish, salmon, and trout, shrimp, and algae). Aquaculture was developed a long time ago in China and aquaculture supplies for over 20% of all the seafood harvested. However aquaculture is quite a new activity in Canada as it only began in the 1879.  
Abbreviation	An abbreviation is a shorter way to write a word or phrase. People use abbreviations for words that they write a lot. The English language occasionally uses the apostrophe mark ' to show that a word is written in a shorter way, but some abbreviations do not use this mark. More often, they use periods, especially the ones that come from the Latin language. Common Latin abbreviations include i.e. [id est] "that is", e.g. [exempli gratia] "for example", and et al. [et alia] "and others". Some new abbreviations have been created by scientists, by workers in companies and governments, and by people using the Internet. People often think words are abbreviations when in fact they are acronyms. Here are examples of common acronyms: The word "radar" is an acronym for "Radio Detection and Ranging". The name of the large computer company IBM comes from the words "International Business Machines". The name of the part of the United States government that sends rockets into outer space is NASA, from the words "National Aeronautics and Space Administration". When people using the Internet think that something is very funny, they sometimes write "LOL" to mean "Laughing Out Loud". People sometimes write "ASAP" for "As Soon As Possible".  
Angel	In many religions, an angel is a good spirit. In the Old Testament, the New Testament, and the Qur'an angels appear frequently as the messengers of God. In all of these, angels appear like humans. They usually have wings like a bird. In Christianity angels are helpers of god who are ministers to the faithful. Angels don't have the ability to sin. The word angel comes from the Greek word "angelos" which means "messenger". In the Bible angels often punished peoples for their sins. They tested people's faith in God. Angels in the Bible are usually pictured with wings and a halo. The wings represent their speed, and the halo represents their holiness. Few angels are named in the Bible apart from Michael and Gabriel.  
Ad hominem	Ad hominem is a Latin term. It is used in rhethorics. Rhetorics is the science of how to speak well, and how to convice other people of your ideas. Translated to English, "ad hominem" means "against the person" (Latin "homo", where "hominem" is a form is gender-neutral. In ancient Rome it referred to all free men, and by extension to all free human beings). The term is used to describe a rhetorical argument, that is directed towards the person who says something, not about the cause at hand. It is a way to use reputation and rumour and hearsay to change minds. When a social network has already excluded or exiled one person, or applied a label to them, this works more often. Because it works and is also unfair to everyone who would benefit from what they say, it is considered to be a weak or poor argument. Formal disapproval of those who use it is common in a court or in diplomacy, where danger is high. What an ad hominem argument looks like. In logic, a proof is something that starts with premises, and goes through a few logical arguments, to reach a conclusion. Ad hominem example. In this example it can be seen that the (completely unrelated) fact that person A is uneducated and poor is used to prove that abortion should not be illegal.  
Native American	Native Americans (also Aboriginal Peoples, Aboriginal Americans, American Indians, Amerindians, Amerind, Indians, First Nations, First Peoples, Alaskan Natives, Native Canadians, or Indigenous Peoples of America) are those people who were in North America, Central America, South America, and the Caribbean Islands when the Europeans came there. The Europeans were travelling west, so they thought they were going to India. This is why they called the people "Indians". Sometimes these people are called "Indians", but this is confusing, because it is the same word used for people from India. The words aboriginal or first people or indigenous people are also used. Other names for these for Native Americans are First Nations (in Canada) and "Red Indians" (this is not used much any more). There are many different tribes of American Indian people, with many different languages. Many American Indians died after the Europeans came to the Americas, from diseases that came with the Europeans that were new to the Indians, in wars with the Europeans, or because the Europeans made them work as slaves. Most of the American Indians were hurt or killed by settlers who wanted to take their lands. Most people think that the ancestors of American Indians came to the Americas from Asia. Some of them may have come to America over 12,000 years ago when Alaska was connected to Asia by land. Some people think that they came to the Americas even before that. Some of their ancestors may have come along the coastline in small boats or canoes, because sometimes there were glaciers blocking the land between Alaska and Asia. Some Indian tribes and languages of North America are Cherokee, Maya or Yucatec Maya, Aztecs, Navajo, and Sioux. Some Indian tribes and languages of South America are Aymara, Guarani, Quechua, and Tupi.  
Apple	An apple is a kind of fruit. The apple fruit is sometimes located on the branch of a tree. A ripe apple might also be green, brown or yellow. The shape of an apple is a ball. An apple is about 18 centimeters around. The skin of the apple is thin. Apples are hard fruits. Apples can taste sweet. Apples can taste sour. Apples have seeds in the middle. People first grew apple trees in Central Asia. Apples are now grown in most of the cooler parts of the world. Sometimes apples are eaten after they are cooked. Often apples are eaten uncooked. Apples can also be made into drinks. Apple juice and apple cider are apple drinks. The flesh of the fruit is firm with a taste anywhere from sour to sweet. Apples used for cooking are sour, and need to be cooked with sugar, while other apples are sweet, and do not need cooking. There are some seeds at the core, that can be removed with a tool that removes the core, or by carefully using a knife. The scientific name of the apple tree genus in the Latin language is "Malus". Most apples that people grow are of the "Malus domestica" species. Most apples are good to eat raw (not cooked), and are also used in many kinds of baked foods, such as apple pie. Apples are cooked until they are soft to make apple sauce. Apples are also made into the drinks apple juice and cider. Usually, cider contains a little alcohol, about as much as beer. The regions of Brittany in France and Cornwall in England are known for their apple ciders. If one wants to grow a certain type of apple it is not possible to do this by planting a seed from the wanted type. The seed will have DNA from the apple that the seeds came from, but it will also have DNA from the apple flower that pollinated the seeds, which may well be a different type. This means that the tree which would grow from planting would be a mixture of two. In order to grown a certain type of apple, a small twig, or 'scion', is cut from the tree that grows the type of apple desired, and then added on to a specially grown stump called a rootstock. The tree that grows will only create apples of the type needed. In the United Kingdom. In the United Kingdom there are about 3000 different types of apples. The most common apple type grown in England is the 'Bramley seedling', which is a popular cooking apple. Apple orchards are not as common as they were in the early 1900s, when apples were rarely brought in from other countries. Organisations such as teach people about the importance of rare and local varieties of fruit. 'Apple Day' is celebrated each October 21 in many places. Family. Apples are in the group Maloideae. It is a subfamily of the family "Rosaceae". They are in the same subfamily as pears. Its family is the family of rose like plants, and roses are in the family.  
Abrahamic religion	People use the term Abrahamic Religion for a number of religions that recognise Abraham as an important person. The best known and probably most popular Abrahamic religions are Judaism, Christianity, and Islam. Another Abrahamic religion is the gnostic movement called Mandaeism. Mandaeism originated in the 2nd or 3rd century in moden-day Iraq and Iran, probably from a movement with Christian backgrounds. Other movements are Bahai and Rastafarianism. The Bahai faith originated in the 19th century and Rastafarianism in the early 20th century. Even though these religions are quite different from each other in many ways, they also agree in many other very important ways on the basic general nature of the one God whom they worship. The word "Abrahamic" refers to the ancient prophet Abraham, who is respected in Judaism, Christianity, and Islam as the first prophet of God. Another thing Abrahamic religions have in common is that they are "Monotheistic" (from the Greek words for "one" and "God"), meaning belief in just one God. They also all believe that people should pray to this God often.  
Algebra	Algebra is a part of mathematics (maths) that helps show the general links between numbers and math operations (adding, subtracting, multiplying or dividing) used on the numbers. Algebra does this by using letters ("a","b","c"...) or other symbols to represent numbers, either because the numbers are unknown or because the numbers change during the course of the problem, in which case the letters are called variables. In many math problems, time is a variable, often represented by the letter "t". Using the basic ideas in algebra can help reduce a math problem to its simplest form making it easier to solve difficult problems. Algebra is taught in school to help in harder mathematics, science, and engineering classes. Here is a simple example of an algebra problem. Sue has 12 jellybeans, Ann has 24 jellybeans. They decide to share, so that they have same jellybeans. Let "x" represent the number of jellybeans Ann gives to Sue. Then we want 12 + "x" = 24 - "x". Here are steps you can use to solve the problem. 1) Subtract 12 from both sides of the equation. This gives "x" = 12 - "x". 2) Add "x" to both sides of the equation. This gives 2"x" = 12. 3) Divide both sides of the equation by 2. This gives "x" = 6. If Ann gives Sue 6 jellybeans, they will have the same number of jellybeans. Of course, this problem could be solved without algebra. The purpose of simple story problems such as this one is to teach algebra, so that the students can use algebra when faced with a problem that is too hard to solve any other way. Problems such as building a freeway, designing a cell phone, or finding the cure for a disease all require alegbra. In addition to "elementary algebra", or basic algebra, there are advanced forms of algebra, taught in colleges and universities, such as abstract algebra, linear algebra, and universal algebra. Algebra can be used to solve real problems because the rules of algebra work in real life and numbers can be used to represent the values of real things. Writing algebra. In algebra, adding "z" to "y" (or "y" plus "z") is written as y + z. Subtracting "z" from "y" (or "y" minus "z") is written as y − z. In algebra, multiplying "y" by "z" (or "y" times "z") can be written in 4 ways: y × z, y*z, y·z, or yz. yz is the most usual form of writing the product of "y" and "z" in algebra. When we multiply a number and a letter in algebra, we write the number in front of the letter: 5 × y = 5y. When the number is 1, then the 1 is not written because 1 times any number is that number (1 × "y" = "y") and so is not necessary. When we multiply 2 numbers in algebra, the only way is usually 3·4. × is not used, because it looks too much like the letter x. In algebra, dividing "y" by "z" (or "y" over "z") is written as y ÷ z or y/z. y/z is more commonly used. Graphing algebra. Algebra also introduces graphing and the basic formula formula_1 where "b" is the y-intercept of the graph and "m" is the slope. This formula applies to the coordinates of the graph or formula_2. History. The word "algebra" is a Latin form of the Arabic word "Al-Jabr" ("casting") and comes from a mathematics book "Al-Maqala fi Hisab-al Jabr wa-al-Muqabilah", ("Essay on the Computation of Casting and Equation") written in the 9th century by a famous Persian mathematician, Muhammad ibn Mūsā al-Khwārizmī, who was a Muslim born in Kharazm in Iran. He flourished under Al-Ma'moun in Baghdad, Iraq through 813-833 AD, and died around 840 AD. The book was brought into Europe and translated into Latin in the 12th century. The book was then given the name 'Algebra'.  
As	In other words, you can say more generally what an idiom or metaphor says: for example, "battle of the sexes" is both a metaphor and an idiom that suggests "love as war". Because of this power, you can restate an idiom or metaphor in a way that makes it clear what it means, and what it might assume.  
Atom	An atom is the most simple type of particle that makes up matter. Matter is anything that has mass and uses space. It is the smallest part of an element that still has the properties of that certain element. When you see atoms as ball-shaped, they have diameters of about 10-10 meters (that's 0.0000000001 m). They have masses around 10-23g (that's 0.00000000000000000000001 g.) Origin. The word "atom" comes from the Greek ἀτόμος, "indivisible", from ἀ-, "not," and τόμος, "a cut." Until the end of the 19th century, many people believed atoms were very tiny, solid balls which could never be divided. This idea comes from Democritus and Leucippus, Greek philosophers in the 5th century BC. People believed this until the early 20th century when tests by physicists trying to provide nuclear power disproved it. Types of atom. Atoms are made of 3 kinds of sub-atomic particles - protons, neutrons and electrons. A proton has a positive charge. A neutron has no charge. An electron has a negative charge. Electrons have much less weight than the protons and neutrons. Electrons move very fast around the nucleus. In a neutral atom, the number of protons is the same as the number of electrons. In other atoms, such as [b]isotopes[/b] the number of neutrons is not the same as the number of protons. Charged atoms are called ions. Atoms with fewer electrons than protons have a positive charge. These atoms are called cations. Atoms with more electrons than protons have a negative charge. These atoms are called anions. Structure. The nucleus is at the center of an atom. The "nucleus" contains "protons" and "neutrons", which are tightly packed together. Because of this, the nucleus is positively charged. Protons and neutrons have similar mass. A nucleus is much smaller than its atom. The nucleus is more than 100,000 times smaller than the atom - the size of the atom is determined by the size of the outer electron shell. For an example of size difference, if the atom were the size of a football stadium, the atom's nucleus would be the size of a pea in the middle. Most of an atom is empty space which is occupied by electrons spinning around. Shells. Electrons orbit at different distances from the nucleus. We say those closest to the nucleus are in one "shell," and those a little farther away are in another "shell." Each shell is given a number. The one closest to the nucleus is shell 1, the next one out is shell 2, and so on. Classification. Atoms are usually put into groups based on their atomic number. The atomic number of an atom is the number of protons in the atom. The atomic number decides what family or "element" the atom belongs to. For example, carbon atoms are atoms with 6 protons in their nucleus. All atoms with the same atomic number share many of physical properties and have the same chemical behavior. The different kinds of atoms are listed in the Periodic table. The mass number or "nucleon number" is the total of protons and neutrons. The number of neutrons does not change the element of the atom - within an element family are several members, each with the same atomic number but different mass numbers. These are called isotopes. To write the name of an isotope, we write the name of an element, then its mass number. For example, Carbon-14 (which has 6 protons and 8 neutrons in each atom). Some isotopes are radioactive, meaning they give off radiation. Others are called stable, meaning they do not give off any radiation. Any atom that has an atomic number of 83 or higher is also radioactive, whatever isotope it is. Radioactive atoms and isotopes are dangerous to any living thing except in very small amounts. They should only be handled by experts because they can make people very sick if not handled correctly. Doctors sometimes use isotopes. For example, the isotopes of Barium and Iodine are used to help find illnesses, but they should still be handled very carefully, even though they use very small amounts which are not enough to make a person sick. Only 94 different types of atoms are found in nature, A few more have been made in laboratories). The next element we make could be an ultra-light solid. It could be a liquid with a boiling point of over 2,000,000 degrees Celsius. The Periodic Table. Every different kind of atom has a name and every name has an abbreviation. The 94 kinds of atoms are usually listed in a table. The table is called the periodic table. A scientist called Dmitri Mendeleev was the first to think of the table. Because of this and other things he did, element 101 was called Mendelevium when it was discovered. Lots of atoms that have higher numbers are radioactive, like radium and uranium, and should never be handled without a lot of care and protection because they give off so much radiation. The simplest atom is the hydrogen atom, which has atomic number 1. The most common type of hydrogen atom has 1 proton and 1 electron (with no neutron). The hydrogen isotope containing 1 additional neutron is called "deuterium"; the hydrogen isotope with 2 additional neutrons is called "tritium". It has been the subject of much interest in science, particularly in the early development of quantum theory. Examples. The first 11 kinds of atoms (also called elements) are called hydrogen, helium, lithium, beryllium, boron, carbon, nitrogen, oxygen, fluorine, neon and sodium. Their abbreviations are H, He, Li, Be, B, C, N, O, F, Ne, Na. You may notice that Sodium does not fit with Na. This is because sodium was most commonly called "natrium" in the past. This has carried over into other parts of science as well. "Hyponatremia" is an illness where the body lacks enough salt to function properly. The purpose of an atom. All matter and all substances are made up of these 95 kinds of atoms. Most things contain far fewer types of atoms. Water, for example, contains only atoms of hydrogen and oxygen. In water these atoms form combinations called molecules.  
Astronomy	Astronomy is the study of planets, stars, galaxies, and other objects found in outer space. Astronomy is one of the oldest sciences. It was done even before history was written. Astronomy should not be confused with astrology, which is not a science. Early astronomy. The early astronomers were traders and sailors who needed the stars to guide them at night. Farmers, who needed to find out when planting, flooding, or harvesting times were coming, looked at the rising and setting of certain constellations in the sky. Ancient people who built things like Stonehenge, and the native North American medicine wheels, probably studied the sky for religious or sacred reasons. All these people needed accurate knowledge of the phases of the Moon, the most north and most south seasonal points of the sun, and other information for their purposes. Some people called astrologers believe they can predict the future by studying where the planets are in the sky when a person is born. Astrology is not regarded as a science these days. In the past, astrology and astronomy were closely linked, and people kept careful records of what they saw. These records have been very important to astronomers during the past two centuries, as they were trying to understand the Universe. History of astronomy. Early people studied the stars using only their eyes as telescopes and binoculuars had not yet been invented. People saw some of the planets such as Mars and Venus, and studied Earth's Moon. People made maps of the stars positions and movements and used these for navigation. Early astronomers thought that the Sun and the stars went around or orbited the Earth. This was what everyone believed for hundreds of years. But later, during a time called the Renaissance, a man called Nicolaus Copernicus proved that the Earth moves around the sun. He came up with the idea of a Solar System where the Earth and planets move around the Sun. His idea was improved on by an important man called Galileo Galilei. Galileo helped to create the telescope which made it possible for people to see things much farther away. Galileo got into trouble with the church though because he argued against the idea that Earth was the center of everything. The Pope passed an order that made Galileo stay in his house and publish no books for most of his life. After Galileo, people used telescopes more often and began to see further-away objects such as the planets Uranus and Neptune. They also saw how stars were similar to our Sun, but in a range of colours and sizes and other far away objects such as nebula. Since the 20th century astronomy has progressed a lot. It is now possible to use very big telescopes like the Hubble Space Telescope to look at stars and galaxies billions of miles away. Astronomers now use giant transmitters to look at things using x rays and radio waves. Astronomy Equipment. To study astronomy on a basic level you can just use your eyes. Looking at something with just your eyes is called using your naked eye. Many stars are too far away to see with your eyes: you need binoculars or a telescope to see them. Kinds of astronomy. Astronomy has become a very large science in the past few hundred years, and there are many different types of astronomy. Lunar astronomers study the moon, while planetary astronomers study the planets near our sun, and the planets near other stars. Some astronomers study special types of stars, like when two stars are next to each other. Other astronomers study distant galaxies, which are very large groups of many stars. There are also astronomers who never look at the sky at all. These "theoretical" astronomers use physics and mathematics in combination with computers to create "models" of how the universe behaves, then they compare their models to what is observed. They want to understand and predict the events which happen in the universe, and understand how the universe was formed.  
Architecture	Architecture is the design of structures; how they are built. An architect must study for many years to become qualified. The purpose of most architecture is shelter. On a small scale, a garden shed or a stable are examples of simple architecture. On a large scale, architecture may mean the designing of whole towns and cities. In a more general sense, architecture can be the designing of any kind of thing, from a chair to a computer. The word architect is even starting to be used as a verb. A person might 'architect' a system. (This is not correct English, but it is an example of how language changes and develops). The Word Architecture. The word architecture seems to suggest something higher, more noble, than simply the designing of a building. A successful building should speak of wisdom handed down through thousands of years. Sadly that wisdom is very often ignored. Most new construction is poor in design and materials. People rip out delicate, elegant wooden windows and replace them with crude, heavy white plastic 'units'. They throw away lightweight slates, split by hand from the mountains, which have turned the softest shades of grey, only because the nails holding them on have rusted. They replace them with heavy concrete tiles dyed red, which make the beams of the roof dip. They build shelves and closets from chipboard (woodpulp and glue, pressed tight to make an imitation of wood). These have no grain like real wood, so they dip and collapse with only a small amount of weight. History. In the past, people built huts and wood houses to shelter from the weather. For reasons of cost, the houses were simple and small. For safety, they were often close together. Great civilizations like the Ancient Egyptians built large temples and structures, like the pyramids. The Ancient Greeks and Romans made what we now call Classical Architecture. The Romans, working over 2000 years ago, copied the arch from the Etruscans, who copied it from the Mesopotamians. The stone columns which still hold up so many important buildings, like the Parthenon in Athens, were simply copied from the first wooden posts. Classical Architecture is very formal, it always obeyed laws. It used symmetry, which really means balance, and it used proportion which means keeping shapes to certain patterns. The Golden Mean was a rule (or law) which said, (to put it very simply) if you are making a room, or any other thing, it will work best if you always make the long side 1.6 times longer than the short side. There are many laws in Classical Architecture, like how high the middle of an arched bridge needs to be (which depends on how wide the bridge needs to be). These laws were learned from centuries of experience and they are as true today as they were 2000 years ago. In some parts of the world, like India, the architecture is famous for stone carving on temples and palaces. Different architectural styles were made in China, Japan, Southeast Asia, Africa, Mexico, and Central and South America. Later, people in Western Europe in the Middle Ages made Romanesque architecture, then Gothic architecture. Gothic buildings have tall, pointed windows and arches. Many churches have Gothic architecture. Castles were also built at this time. In Eastern Europe, churches usually had domes. People were copying the Classical Architecture from the past, but adding their own ideas and decoration. Then in the 18th Century the Industrial Revolution happened and people began to invent machines to make things quickly and cheaply. Many factories and mills were built during, or after this revolution. 100 years later, in the Victorian era, architects like George Fowler Jones and Decimus Burton still followed the Gothic style, to build new churches. But towards the end of the 19th Century, architects began to use the newer, cheaper materials like metal girders and reinforced concrete to build. An example is the Eiffel Tower in Paris. Buildings can now be built taller than ever before. We call them skyscrapers. This new technology has made us free from traditional limitations, but it has also made us free from the ancient laws. Modernism, which started as early as 1890, has resulted in some handsome, impressive buildings, like the Chrysler Building in New York, but also some truly horrible buildings. The ancient laws have been forgotten, or ignored, as architects have become more interested in doing something 'original'. It seems incredible that we can make these mistakes, when our ancestors built with such skill and beauty. Our wide use of, and dependance on, machines has made many of us think like machines. The famous Modernist architect Le Corbusier once said "A house is a machine for living in". We have come a long way since our first mud huts, but perhaps we have also lost something along the way.  
Anatomy	Anatomy is the study of the bodies of living beings (people, animals, plants). It is like taking the body apart, and looking at its parts (organs, muscles and bones). People who study "anatomy" then look where a certain organ (or bone, or muscle) should be, or where it normally is.  
Asteroid	An asteroid is like a planet, but smaller. The name "asteroid" means "like a star" in the ancient Greek language. Asteroids may look like small stars in the sky, but they really do move around the Sun, while stars only seem to move because the Earth spins. Like planets, asteroids do not make their own light. Because of this, some people think "asteroids" is not a good name, and think that the name "planetoid" ("like a planet") would be a better name. Most asteroids are made of rock, but some are made of ice or metal. Most asteroids in our Solar System are in the asteroid belt between Mars and Jupiter. Formation. Asteroids are the leftover rock and other material from the formation of the Solar System. These rocks were too small to make a planet, and could not collide to form one. Discovery. In the 1600s, Gisuppe Piazzi discovered the first asteroid. It was named Ceres, and is the biggest object in the asteroid belt. Other asteroids, like Juno, Pallas, and Vesta were discovered later. Today, astronomers know of hundreds of thousands of asteroids, which range from fractions of a mile to 600 miles across.  
Afghanistan	Afghanistan (Persian: جمهوری اسلامی افغانستان) is a country located in South Asia. It is bordered by Iran in the west, Pakistan in the south and east, Turkmenistan, Uzbekistan, Tajikistan in the north, and China in the northeast.. Islam is the main religion. Persian (Dari) and Pashto are the main languages. The population of Afghanistan is divided into many ethnic groups of which Tajik, Pashtun, Hezara, Uzbek and Baloch. Although the name Afghan (in its original meaning) refers to Pashtuns only, but under the constitution of Afghanistan, the word Afghan applies to every citizen of Afghanistan. The name Afghanistan means the "Land of Afghans". History. The modern Afghanistan was established in 1747 and in 1919 the king of Afghanistan declared independence for the state (from UK control over Afghan foreign affairs) under the new name "Afghanistan". The history of the land does not begin in 1747. Aryan (Indo-European people) tribes settled in the area around 4000 years ago and called their land "Airiana vaejo" means the "Land of Aryans". This name was mentioned in the Avesta, the old book of their religion, Zoroastrianism. The old Greek writers heard the word and called the land of these Aryan settlers "Ariana". By the middle of the sixth century BC, the Persians who were also Aryans included the area within its boundaries and created Persian Empire. Alexander the great conquered Persian Empire by fighting in 330 BC. After him Kushans, Parthians and Sassanians took over. The Sassanians who were also Persians called their empire "Eranshahr" which later became Iran means the "Land of Aryans". Iran used to be called Persia for a long time by people outside of Iran. Other people took Iran by fighting like the Arabs (7th century), Turks (10th century) and Mongols (13th century). The area which is now known as Afghanistan was then called "Khorasan" and it was a prosperous and important province of Iran, as it was the seat of most rulers. The Safavid dynasty (1502-1736) made Shia Islam the religion of their state. Safavids were cruel to Afghans (Pashtuns) who were living in the south eastern parts of Khorasan and their religion was different, it was Sunni Islam. Afghans then revolted and separated Khorasan from Iran in 1747. The country served as a buffer between the British and Russian empires until it won independence from British control in 1919. Wars in Afghanistan. In 1979 Soviet Union attacked and occupied Afghanistan. The occupation resulted in the killings of at least 600,000 to 2 million Afghan civilians and many more refugees. After the Soviets withdrew from Afghanistan in 1989, a series of civil wars continued. In 1996, Afghanistan was seized by a hardline movement called the Taliban. Taliban were emerged in 1994 and were sponsored by Pakistan. During the Taliban's rule, much of the Afghans experienced restrictions on their freedom and violations of their human rights. The civil wars and Taliban rule left Afghanistan in ruins. Following the September 11 attacks, the United States overthrew the Taliban government for refusing to hand over Osama bin Laden and several al-Qaida members, who were behind these attacks. In December 2004, Hamid Karzai became the first democratically elected president of Afghanistan.  
Angola	Angola is a country in Africa. The capital is Luanda. Angola is situated in the south of the continent.  
Argentina	Argentina or the República Argentina, is a country in south South America. Argentina is the second-largest country in South America and the eighth-largest country in the world. About 39 million people live in the Argentina. Spanish is the language most people speak and the official language, but many other languages are spoken. Some of these are Guarani, Mapudungun and Quechua and even Welsh in Patagonia. The capital city of the Argentina is Buenos Aires, one of the largest cities in the world, in eastern Argentina. In order by number of people, the largest cities in Argentina are Buenos Aires, Córdoba, Rosario, Mendoza, La Plata, Tucumán, Mar del Plata, Salta, Santa Fe, and Bahía Blanca. Argentina is located between the Andes mountain range in the west and the southern Atlantic Ocean in the east and south. It is bordered by Paraguay and Bolivia in the north, Brazil and Uruguay in the northeast, and Chile in the west and south. It also claims the the Falkland Islands (Spanish: "Islas Malvinas") and South Georgia and the South Sandwich Islands. History. The name Argentina comes from the Latin "argentum" (silver) as the Spanish conquistadors believed the area had silver. In the Americas, Canada, US, Brazil and Argentina are the largest countries (in that order). The oldest signs of people in Argentina are located in the Patagonia (Piedra Museo, Santa Cruz), and are more than 13,000 years old. In 1480 the Inca Empire conquered northwestern Argentina, making it part of the empire. In the northeastern area, the Guaraní developed a culture based on yuca and sweet potato however typical dishes all around Argentina are pasta, red wines (Italian influence) and beef. Other languages spoken are Italian, English and German. Lunfardo is Argentinean slang and is a mix of Spanish and Italian. Argentineans are said to speak Spanish with an Italian accent. Politics. Argentina is a federal republic. The people of Argentina vote for a President to rule them and Senators and Deputies to speak for them and make laws for them. The President is Cristina Fernández de Kirchner since December 2007. Geography. Argentina is almost 3,700 km long from north to south, and 1,400 km from east to west (maximum values). It can be divided into three parts: the Pampas in the central part of the country, Patagonia in the southern part down to Tierra del Fuego; and the Andes mountain range along the western border with Chile, with the highest point located in the province of Mendoza. Cerro Aconcagua, at 6,960 metres (22,834 ft), is the Americas' highest mountain. The most important rivers include the River Plate, Paraguay, Bermejo, Colorado, Uruguay and the largest river, the Paraná. River Plate was incorrectly translated though, and should have been translated to English as River of (the) Silver. River Plate is also a famous Buenos Aires soccer team. Other information. The majority of the Argentineans are descendants of Europeans mainly from Spain, Italy, Germany, Ireland, France, other Europeans countries and Mestizo representing more than 90% of the total population of the country. Football or soccer is the most popular sport, although the national sport of the country is Pato. Argentina has a number of highly-ranked Polo players. Field hockey (for women) rugby and golf are also favorites. Argentina is a Christian country. Most of Argentina's people (80 percent) are Roman Catholic. Roman Catholicism is the state religion but Argentina also has the largest population of Jewish community after Israel and US. Many Middle Eastern immigrants who were Muslims converted to Catholicism, but there are still Muslims as well. Medicine is socialized and so is education, making Argentina's literacy rate about 98%. State University is free as well.  
Austria	Austria (German: Österreich), officially "Republic of Austria", is a country in Central Europe. Around Austria there are Germany, Czech Republic, Slovakia, Hungary, Slovenia, Italy, Switzerland, and Liechtenstein. Currently, the chancellor is Werner Faymann. Austria has been a member-state of the EU since 1995. The people in Austria speak German, a few also Hungarian, Slovenian and Croatian. The capital of Austria is Vienna (Wien). Austria is more than thousand years old. Its history can be followed to the ninth century. At that time the first people moved to the land now known as Austria. The name "Ostarrichi" is first written in an official document from 996. Since then this word has developed into the Modern German word "Österreich". Austria is a democratic state and has nine federal states (): Vorarlberg, the Tyrol, Salzburg, Carinthia, Styria, Upper Austria, Lower Austria, Vienna and Burgenland. It is a neutral state, that means it does not take part in wars with other countries. Austria is in the United Nations since 1955 and in the European Union since 1995. Ancient times. There has been human settlement in the area that is now Austria for a long time. The first settlers go back to the Paleolithic age, they time of the Neanderthals. They left works of art, such as the Venus of Willendorf. In the Neolithic age, people were living there to dig for resources, especially copper. Ötzi, a mummy found in a glacier between Austria and Italy, is from that time. In the Bronze Age bigger settlements and fortresses were built, especially where there were resources. Salt mining began near Hallstatt. At that time, Celts began to form the first states. The Romans. The Romans settled in most of modern Austria. They built larger cities. The most important of these were Carnuntum (near Vienna), Virunum (north of Klagenfurt) and Teurnia (near Spittal an der Drau). Modern times. Austria was an empire from about 800 to 1918. And was ruled by The House of Habsburg for most of that period. Then it became a republic. The "First Republic" was from 1918 to 1938, the "Second Republic" has been from 1945. From 1938 to 1945 Austria was part of Germany. Geography. Austria is a largely mountainous country since it is in the Alps. The high mountainous Alps in the west of Austria flatten somewhat into low lands and plains in the east of the country. Music and Arts. Many famous composers were Austrians or born in Austria. There are Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart, Joseph Haydn, Franz Schubert, Anton Bruckner, Johann Strauss, Sr., Johann Strauss, Jr. and Gustav Mahler. In modern times there were Arnold Schoenberg, Anton Webern and Alban Berg, who belonged to the Second Viennese School. Austria has many artists, there are Gustav Klimt, Oskar Kokoschka, Egon Schiele or Friedensreich Hundertwasser, Inge Morath or Otto Wagner and scienc. Food. Famous Austrian dishes are Wiener Schnitzel, Schweinsbraten, Kaiserschmarren, Knödel, Sachertorte and Tafelspitz.  
Armenia	Armenia is a country in the Caucasus region of Europe. Its capital city is Yerevan. Armenia received its independence from the Soviet Union in 1991. Armenia touches Turkey, Georgia, Azerbaijan, and Iran. There are some minorities living in Armenia, such as Greek, Russian, and other minorities, and more than 90% of the people are ethnic Armenians. Also, the Armenian Apostolic Church, is by far the largest religion in the country. There are a small amount of other Christians, Muslims and atheists. Armenia is the place that some Christians believe Noah's Ark landed, and Noah's family settled. The Armenian name for Armenia (Hayastan) means Land of Haik. Haik was the name of a great-great-grandson of Noah. Throughout history, Armenia's size has changed many times. Today Armenia is much smaller than it was once. In 80 BC, the Kingdom of Armenia covered parts of what is today Turkey, Syria, Lebanon, Iran, Iraq, Azerbaijan, and, of course, Armenia. From 1920 to 1991, Armenia was a Communist country. (Communism is a political idea.) It was a member of the Soviet Union. Today, Armenia's borders are locked with Turkey and Azerbaijan, due to conflicts. In 1992, Armenia and Azerbaijan had a war over the land of Nagorno-Karabakh. The fighting stopped in 1994, and Armenia has had control over this land, but Azerbaijan still disputes about the land.  
Archaeology	Archaeology is the study of the past by looking for the remains and relics (historical things) left by the people who lived before us. These are called "artifacts", and can include old coins, tools, buildings and garbage (rubbish). Archaeologists try to work out what these remains mean. To find these remains, archaeologists often have to dig deep in the ground. This is called fieldwork. When things are found, or even when nothing is found, the results of the fieldwork are taken back to the place where the archaeologist is based, perhaps a University or museum. Every piece of information is written down or put into a computer, so that a picture can be built up. As settlements (places where people lived in groups) change and grow, what went before is often buried. Ancient Rome, for example, is now up to 40 feet (12 metres) below the present city. This is why archaeology is expensive and why it takes so long. Sometimes archaeologists find the bones of dead people and the things they used, or the houses they lived in. Archaeologists think it is important to understand the past, because so many people use the past to know where they come from. Archaeologists have many different 'fields of interest', which means they do not all study the same things. Some study Ancient Egypt and are called Egyptologists; others study Ancient Greece, or the Vikings. Archaeologists study every civilization that is known, especially the ones where there is no history to read. They can study any time period. For example, one might study the beginning of human life in Africa, or one might study World War II. Some archaeologists study things that are now underwater. They search for sunken ships or cities that have been lost under the sea. Stonehenge, in England is a famous archaeological site, or place. Other famous sites include Angkor Wat, Machu Picchu, and Great Zimbabwe. In many countries, governments and other groups of people protect important sites so that they will not be destroyed and so that visitors can always come and see them. Sometimes archaeological sites are found when foundations are dug for new buildings. Archaeologists have to work quickly when this happens, because people building are always in a hurry. Quite often as soon as the archaeologists have finished their work, the remains that they have found will be covered over, unless they are of very great importance.  
Application	The word application has several uses. Medicine. In medicine, application means putting some drug or ointment usually on the skin where it is absorbed into the human body. Computers. When dealing with computers, an application is a type of computer program. At the direction of some user, perhaps set up once and executed many times, this performs a well-defined mathematical or communications function, or retrieves information, or displays or edits a document. How well this works depends not only on the code of the program, but also on the operating system and physical attributes of the computer such as how fast its processor is and how much memory is available. Physically, the bits making up the application can be on the boot device or a data device, or a device of their own. Usually, some basic applications like a text editor, file browser and telnet do go on the boot device to be sure that they are always available even if only the boot is accessed. If the bits are on a non-boot device, they may not always be found when required. In the Microsoft Windows operating system, the user may be asked to find the application that is used to run a specific file. Common types of applications available free of charge include web browsers, email programs, media players, and instant messaging software. Business. In business or government, an application is a (usually paper) form filled out and handed in by a person seeking a privilege from a state or company, such as work, credit, some type of license or permit, or a place to live. Engineering. At work, generally engineering, when dealing with certain materials or objects, an "application" is a purpose that material or object can be used for. Wood and steel have many applications.  
Animalia	Animalia is the name of the animal kingdom. It is a kingdom which contains all animals. Animals are living things which do not make use of light to get energy and building materials (like plants do) to grow. They eat plants or other animals. Most higher animals can also move around, which is another difference with plants. Animals are divided into groups as well. Grouping animals. When scientists look at animals, they find things that certain animals have in common. They can then group the animals, according to some of these things. One classification is that some animals have a backbone, and others do not. The animals with a backbone are called vertebrates, those without one are called invertebrates. Examples of invertebrates are bees, dragonflies, jellyfish, etc. The problem with this classification though is that most animals are invertebrates. Therefore, other classifications are used more often, today. The vertebrate phylum is more commonly known as chordata. There are many other phylums, and every other one of them contain invertebrates.  
Animal	Animals are living things. Animals are not plants so they can't make their own food or energy by themselves. Animals have to eat other living things (animals, plants, fungi, etc.) to get energy to live. Many animals live in this world. Some are big and some are small. Some live in water, others live on the ground and some animals can fly. Being able to move from one place to another is another distinctive characteristic of an animal. Some animals eat only plants; they are called herbivores. Other animals eat only meat and are called carnivores. Animals that eat both plants and meat are called omnivores. Animals are divided into groups; see animalia. Their mode of nutrition is known as heterotrophic nutrition because they eat other living organisms as food in order to survive. There are animals living in solitary and groups. Examples of animals living in solitary are tigers, rhinoceros, cheetahs and more. Examples of animals living in groups are coyotes, bees, monkeys and more. Animals living in solitary do not have to share food with each other. Animals living in groups have better protection against becoming the prey of others. Bees and ants are grouped in a special group called a colony. In a colony, the animals work together in a special way and usually have a leader. The leader of the bees is called the Queen Bee. The animal kingdom is very diverse. There are many types of animals. But, the common animals you know are only about 3% of the animal kingdom. There are many other animals, such as insects and sponges! Animals can mainly be divided into two main groups, the invertebrates, and the vertebrates. The vertebrates are animals with a backbone, or spine, and the invertebrates without. Invertebrastes include insects, crustaceans, molluscs, corals, worms, and much more. The vertebrates are divided into 5 groups, fish, birds, amphibians, reptiles and mammals.  
Acceleration	Acceleration is a measure of how fast velocity changes. Acceleration is the change of velocity divided by the change of time. Acceleration is a vector, and therefore includes both a size and a direction. Finding acceleration. Sometimes the change in velocity formula_7 is written as Δformula_8. Sometimes the change in time formula_9 is written as Δt. Units of measurement. Acceleration has its own units of measurement. For example, if velocity is measured in meters per second, and if time is measured in seconds, then acceleration is measured in meters per second squared (m/s2). Other words. Acceleration can be positive or negative. Positive acceleration is called acceleration, or speeding up. Negative acceleration is called deceleration, or slowing down. Newton's second law of motion. There are rules for how things move. These rules are called "laws of motion". Isaac Newton is the scientist who made the main laws of motion. According to Newton's Second Law of Motion, acceleration formula_10 is connected to force formula_11, and mass formula_12. D'Alembert have also proven that "F-ma=0 That means whatever may be the force acting on a body same amount of deaccelerating force is acting in it. Acceleration is part of physics. Using calculus, acceleration is the derivative, or rate of change, of velocity. The force something needs to accelerate an object depends on the object's mass: the amount of "stuff" the object is made from.  
Basic English	Basic English is a made-up language written by Charles Kay Ogden. The idea of Basic English is to use easy words to explain harder thoughts. Basic English ("British American Scientific International Commercial") has 850 basic words. From the 850 words, 600 are names of things. Most of the words can be learned using pictures. 150 are words to describe things (adjectives) and to describe verbs (adverbs). The last 100 words are verbs and conjunctions. Verbs are words that show actions, and conjunctions are words that help put sentences together. Rules of word use. The word use of Basic English is like full English, but the rules are much simpler, and there are fewer exceptions. Not all meanings of each word are allowed. Ogden's rules of grammar for Basic English help people use the 850 words to talk about things and events in a normal way.  
Black pudding	Black pudding is an English name for blood sausage. It is food made by cooking down the blood of any mammal (usually pigs or cattle) with meat, fat or filler until it is thick enough to congeal (become firm or solid) when cooled. Types of Black pudding. In England blood sausage is called "Black Pudding". The ingredients include pig's blood, suet, bread, barley and oatmeal. The most common kind of German "blutwurst" is made from fatty pork meat, beef blood and filler such as barley. Though already cooked and "ready to eat" it is usually served warm. Other kinds of blood sausage include "boudin noir" (France), "boudin rouge" (Creole and Cajun) and "morcilla" (Spain). History. A legend says that blood sausage was invented in a bet between two Bavarian butchers drunk on the alcoholic drink absinthe during the 14th century. Homer's "Odyssey" from Ancient Greece says that "As when a man besides a great fire has filled a sausage with fat and blood and turns it this way and that and is very eager to get it quickly roasted...".  
Boot device	A boot device makes a computer work. It is named after a boot which fits on the foot. The word bootstrap is also closely related, and means, to use something simpler to get something more complex to make itself work better. Devices that can boot a computer are usually boot disks or boot drives (normally a hard drive, but can be a floppy disk or a CD). Some network computers use "boot chips" that get the operating system over a network. Web phones also use such chips to identify the user to the cell network. Boot card standards may let many users boot kiosk computers with full privacy and access to all applications they own. There are also boot boards or boot "add-in" cards that are more permanent than boot cards. Some people refer to the boot device as just a boot and non-boot devices as data devices, although it is not the computer but the operating system that cares about the difference between these. Origin. The boot in boot device is the same as booting (or starting up). This is short for bootstrapping, or to start with simple stuff and make complex stuff out of it.  
Boot	A boot is a type of footwear that protects the foot and ankle. Boots are higher and larger than shoes and sandals. Some boots are high enough to protect the calves (lower part of the leg) as well. Some boots are held on with "bootstraps" or "bootlaces". Some also have spats or "gaiters" to keep water out. Most have a very strong "boot sole", the bottom part of a boot. Other meanings. People in English-speaking countries refer to boots in a figurative or joking manner when they tell someone "to lift yourself up by your own bootstraps". This is a joke because it is impossible for someone to lift themselves up by their own bootstraps. What the person is really saying is "figure out your problem yourself" or "find your own way to better your situation." As well, people sometimes use the term to bootstrap. This is an idiom meaning "to use something simpler to get something more complex to make itself work better." The word "boot" is also used to describe how a computer starts up when a person presses the "on" button. Another term "To boot" is an idiom meaning also. For example, people say "he had a beer, and a whiskey to boot." This means that the person had a beer, and also had a glass of whiskey. Another slang use of the word "boot" is to say "Fred got the boot from the company." This means that Fred got fired from the company.  
Bankrupt	Anything that does not have enough money to pay all of its debt is insolvent. If it applies for protection by law it may then be bankrupt. In many countries a company or business can "file for bankruptcy protection" so that creditors cannot destroy all of the physical capital and goodwill by breaking it apart and moving it away. All this provides is more time to work out a new deal between the owners and the people the business owes money. An individual person who owes debt and cannot pay it can also "declare bankruptcy". That person will lose all but some basic things they own, but all the debt will go away. Normally they cannot easily borrow money again for years. Very often, a creditor threatens a debtor with debt slavery, if the debtor does not know that they have a right to go bankrupt. This is a human rights problem in very many countries.  
Breakfast sausage	Breakfast sausage is a type of fresh pork sausage made from seasoned ground meat mixed with bread crumbs. Breakfast sausage has a blander flavor than many other types of sausage, such as Polish or Italian-style sausages. Using breakfast sausages. Breakfast sausages are not cured or smoked like other types of sausages, which means that they have to be cooked soon after they are purchased (unless they are frozen). Uncooked sausages should be stored in the refrigerator or the freezer. Individuals handling them should wash their hands in hot soapy water, because uncooked pork is unhealthy for humans. Pork sausages have to be heated until all of the meat inside is cooked. They are usually fried or grilled in a pan until they are browned and served at breakfast, often with cooked eggs, pancakes, and toasted bread. Breakfast sausages are also used in other dishes, such as "toads in the hole" a cooked egg dish. Types of breakfast sausages. Different types made from pork and beef mixtures as well as poultry can now be found. There are also vegetarian types that use textured vegetable protein in place of meat. Breakfast sausages are available in patties or slices from a large roll, or in weiner-like links of different lengths and thickness.  
Beekeeping	Beekeeping or apiculture is the farming of honeybees. Uses. The keeping of bees is usually, and has been in the past, for honey. Now it is increasingly used for crop pollination and other products. These are wax and propolis. Queen bees do not control their hives; they lay eggs they are known as the "egg layers" of the hive. They are bigger than other types of bees. Types of beekeeping. The largest beekeeping operations are agricultural businesses that are operated for profit. Some people also have small beekeeping operations that they do as a hobby.  
British English	British English is the kind of English language which is used in the United Kingdom. Pronunciation (The Way People Say Things) in British English. In the United Kingdom, many different people say words in different ways. For example: a man from a place near London may not say his "r"s the same as a man from Scotland or a man from Northern Ireland. In fact, people in some places in the United Kingdom have spoken different languages in the past, and some places still speak those languages today. In some places, the way people speak is changed by knowing the other language, such as Gaelic. Other times, peoples' English accent (the way they sound when they speak English) has been changed by the groups people socialize in. The accent that actors use in television from the BBC is called Received Pronunciation, sometimes called "The Queen's (or King's) English", or "BBC English". Vocabulary in British English. In British English, "dock" refers to the water in the space between two "piers" or "wharfs". In American English, the "pier" or "wharf" could be called a "dock", and the water between would be a "slip".  
Being	The word being means the same as "person". Men, women, and children are human beings. Some people write stories or make movies about beings from other planets. Most religions talk about supernatural beings, for example spirits, angels, devils, gods, or God.  
Beijing	Beijing (Chinese: 北京 /Běijīng/) is the capital of the People's Republic of China. The city used to be known as "Peking". It is located in the northern and eastern parts of the country. The city of Beijing has played a very important role in the development of China. Many people from different cities and countries come to Beijing to look for better chances to find work. Nearly 15 million people live there. In 2008 Beijing will host the Olympic Games. Beijing is well known for its ancient history. Since the Jin dynasty, Beijing has been the capital of several dynasties, including the Yuan, Ming, Qing, and others. There are many places of historic interest in Beijing. These places include the Summer Palace, the Temple of Heaven, and the Great Wall of China. Name. Beijing means "the northern capital" in the Chinese language. It was once a counterpart of Nanjing, "the southern capital", during the Ming Dynasty. This dynasty gave Beijing its name. History. The center of Beijing was settled in the 1st millennium BC. In those days, the Kingdom of Yan (燕) set up their capital where Beijing is today. They called it Ji (蓟). After the Kingdom of Yan was destroyed, the city became smaller, although it was still an important place. Beijing became more important again in the 10th century, when the Jin dynasty set its capital there. This city was destroyed by Mongol forces in 1215. Then in 1267, Mongols built a new city on the north side of the Jin capital, and called it "Great Capital" (大都), which was the beginning of modern Beijing. When Kublai Khan, the Mongolian monarch, set up the Yuan dynasty, this city became his capital. The Yuan, Ming, and Qing dynasties all made Beijing their capitals. When the Qing dynasty lost power and the Republic of China was set up, the new Republic moved its capital from Beijing to Nanjing. When the People's Republic of China seized power, Beijing became the capital of China again. Education. Beijing is the education center of People's Republic of China. More 500 famous universities of China are located in Beijing. They also include 5 of the top universities: Peking University, Tsinghua University, China People University, Beijing Normal University and Beihang University. Beijing is also education center of China for teaching Chinese as a foreign language. The standard Chinese pronunciation is based on Beijing dialect, so over 70% foreigners who want to study Chinese go to Beijing for their studies.  
Bottle	A bottle is a small container used to carry liquids. Bottles can be many different sizes. Bottles are usually made of glass or plastic. Milk, wine, lemonade and water are often put into bottles.  
Berry	The word berry is used for many different kinds of small fruits that has many seeds and can be eaten. Some examples are strawberry, raspberry, blueberry, and lingonberry. A berry can be either one fruit (like strawberry) or many fruits joined together like raspberry). Berries are small, sweet, juicy, bright coloured fruits. Due to this, they are able to bring more animals towards them and spread their seeds. In daily life, grapes, currants, cranberries, blueberries, gooseberries, strawberries, blackberries, raspberries and boysenberris, are berries. However, botanists (people who study plants) say that strawberries, blackberries, raspberries and boysenberries are not berries. Instead, they say that tomatoes, eggplants (brinjals), guavas, pomegranates and chillies are berries. Pumpkins, cucumbers, melons, oranges and lemons are modified (changed) berries.  
Boil	To boil water is to make it hot so that it begins to make bubbles and turns into steam. Water boils at 100 degrees Celsius (212 degrees Fahrenheit). At high altitudes in the mountains, water boils at a lower temperature, because of the lower atmospheric pressure in high places. To boil food is to cook it in boiling water. The word "boil" also has a different meaning. A boil can also be an infection of the skin. A boil of the skin is a red place on the skin that is very painful. The person also may have a fever. The infection is caused by the bacteria "Staphylococcus aureus".  
Beard	A beard is the hair growing on the lower part of a man's face. The hair that grows on the upper lip of some men is a mustache. When a man has hair only below the lower lip and above the chin, it is called a soul patch. Some men have a lot of hair and a big beard, and some have very little. In the modern world, many men shave part or all of their beards, or cut their beard so it does not get very long. Some animals also have hair like this, and people sometimes also call this hair a beard.  
Black	In light, Black is lack of all color. The pigment is the combination of all colors. However, many people refer to it as: "the color black". Meaning of black. Black is associated with power, elegance, formality, death, evil, and mystery. Black is a color associated with fear and the unknown (black holes). It can have a negative meaning (blacklist, 'black death') or a positive meaning ('in the black', 'black is beautiful'). Black can stand for strength and authority. It can be a formal, elegant, and prestigious color (black tie, black Mercedes). In heraldry, black is the symbol of grief. In emo and goth culture, black is a common color for clothing.  
Bubonic plague	The Bubonic plague is a very deadly disease. Some of the symptoms of this disease are coughing, fever, and black spots on the skin. People think that the Black Death that killed millions of Europeans in the Middle Ages was bubonic plague, but they are not sure. Different kinds of the same disease. There are different kinds of Bubonic plague. The most common form of the disease is spread by a certain kind of flea, that lives on rats. Then there is an incubation period which can last from a few hours to about seven days. Sepsis. A Sepsis happens when the bacterium enters the bloodstream. Pneumonic plague. This happens when the bacterium can enter the lungs. About 95% of all people with this form will die. Incubation period is only one to two days. The abortive form. This is the most harmless form. It will result in a little fever. After that, there are antibodies that protect against all forms for a long time. History. During the 1300s, this epidemic struck parts of Asia, North Africa, and Europe. Almost a third of the people in Europe died of it. Unlike catastrophes that pull communities together, this epidemic was so terrifying that it broke people's trust in one another. Giovanni Boccaccio, an Italian writer of the time, described it: "This scourge had implanted so great a terror in the hearts of men and women that brothers abandoned brothers, uncles their nephews, sisters their brothers, and in many cases wives deserted their husbands. But even worse... fathers and mothers refused to nurse and assist their own children." Transmission. The plague was not just carried by rats as some people assume. The fleas also carried it. It came abroad from Kaffa by the Black Sea. From there the disease started to go new places in 1347. It went to England in 1349. There it killed half of the people in England. 70% of people who got plague died. Pigs are also to blame for the transmission, as the bacteria stayed in their blood system, and when eaten, people caught the plague. This is a reason why so few Jews caught the disease. Modern history. In the 20th century, some countries did research on the bacteria that causes bubonic plague. They did research to use it for biological warfare. Samples of this bacteria are carefully controlled. There is much paranoia (fear) about it. Dr. Thomas C. Butler, a US expert in this organism was charged in October 2003 by the FBI with various crimes. This happened after he said he lost samples of "Yersinia pestis". This is the bacteria that causes bubonic plague. The FBI did not find the samples. They do not know what happened to them.  
Biology	Biology is the science of life and living things, like plants, animals, fungi (such as mushrooms), and bacteria. People who study biology are called biologists. "What are the characteristics of this living thing?" (What makes it different from other living things?) "How should we group this living thing?" "What does this living thing do?" Biology looks at how animals and other organisms behave and work, and what they are like. Biology also studies how organisms react with each other and the environment. Biology as a science has existed for hundreds of years, and it has many research fields and branches. Many of those branches are seen as independent. Like all sciences, biology uses the scientific method. This means that biologists must be able to show evidence for their ideas, and that other biologists must be able to test the ideas for themselves. History. Biology is known widely as a form of magic which was invented by evil Scottish scientist David Renfrew on a twenty-year long quest to count all the pine needles in the United States. While attempting to find himself, and count such needles, he decided to devise this evil form of magic to torment high school age students.  
Botany	Botany is a science. It is a branch of biology, and is also called plant biology. It is sometimes called phytology. Botany is the study of plants. Scientists who study botany are called botanists. They want to learn about how plants work.  
Belgium	Belgium ("België" in Dutch, "Belgique" in French and "Belgien" in German) is a country in Europe. It is next to France, Luxembourg, Germany, and the Netherlands. The capital city of Belgium is Brussels. There are three regions in Belgium: Flanders (where the Flemish speak Dutch) in the northern half of Belgium, Wallonia (where most Walloons speak French in the southern half and the Brussels-Capital Region in the middle (where Dutch and French are spoken). Inside Wallonia is the area of the German-speaking Community of Belgium. The community has its own parliament and government, but they are not yet as powerful as the Flemish and Walloon bodies. Belgium is famous for high quality chocolate, french fries, comic books, and many kinds of beer.  
Brazil	Brazil is a country in South America. It is the world's fifth largest country. The country has a population of 186 million people. Most people in Brazil speak Portuguese. The capital of Brazil is Brasília, a city planned and built from 1957 to 1960. The country also has the world's fourth largest city, São Paulo. Geographics. Brazil has the world's largest forest, the Amazon Rainforest. It makes up 40% of the country's land area. Brazil also has other types of land; there is a type of savanna called "cerrado"; there is also a dry plant region named "caatinga". Brazil is known for soccer, but it also has many other things: a varied culture (influenced by people who have come from many countries), and a growing economy. Brazil is the largest country and in South America and the largest economy in Latin America. Its people include people of Portuguese or other European descent, African descent, and native Amerindians, as well as many people of mixed origins. The country is the fifth largest in the world by area. It is known for its numerous rainforests and jungles. It neighbours Guyana, Suriname, French Guiana, Venezuela, Colombia, Peru, Bolivia, Paraguay, Argentina and Uruguay, therefore it borders every country in South America, with the exception of two, Chile and Ecuador. The most important cities are São Paulo, Rio de Janeiro, Salvador, Brasília, Curitiba, Belo Horizonte, Salvador, Porto Alegre, Recife, Fortaleza, Manaus and Vitória. People from Brazil are called Brazillians.  
Britain	Britain is often used as a short name for the United Kingdom (of Great Britain and Northern Ireland). People use this name because most of the UK is on the island of Great Britain. Sometimes the name Britain is used to refer to the island of Great Britain only, especially in historical contexts e.g. 'Roman Britain'. There are three countries on the island of Britain: England, Scotland and Wales. History of the name Britain. The modern name Britain comes from an old Celtic name "Prydyn" (or "Prydein"). The Irish language name was "Cruithin". The old Greek writers heard these names and called the island "Pritanni". Scholars now think the word was the name of the Picts (who lived 2,000-1,500 years ago in the north of Britain which is northern Scotland today) in the Welsh and Irish languages. When the Romans came to the island they called it Britannia. Most of Brittania was the home of the Celtic people called the Britons or Brythons who spoke the ancestor language of modern Welsh, Cornish and Breton. When some of these Britons moved to live in north-west France their called their new country by the same name as their old one. It came to be known as 'Breizh' in Breton, and was called Brittany in English (from the French name "Bretagne"). To make clear the difference between Brittany and Britain some people started to call the island of Britain "Great Britain", because it was bigger than the "little Britain" (Brittany) in France.  
Chemistry	Chemistry [kem'-ihs-tree] is the science of "chemical elements" and "compounds", and how these things work together. It is the study of the materials (things) that make up our bodies and everything in the world around us. Chemistry began as a true science during the 1600s. This is when chemists discovered the simplest substances that make up all other substances. These simple substances are called "elements". For a long time before that, people were trying to study these things to figure out how to do things like turn lead into gold, but no one ever did. This was called alchemy [al-kem-mee]. A chemical "compound" is a substance made up of two or more "elements". Things studied in chemistry. Chemical compounds -- Chemical elements -- Physical change -- Chemical change -- Physical property -- Chemical property -- Scientific method -- SI base unit Chemical formula -- Chemical bond -- Chemical equation -- Chemical reaction  
Computer science	Computer science is the science of how to treat information. There are many different fields. Some of them look at problems in a more abstract way. Some fields need certain kinds of machines, called computers. A computer scientist will need math, science, and know-how to make and use computers. Asking a question. A computer is a device which takes orders as fast as you can give them to it and works as fast as it can to solve the orders. Asking the right question. Computers can do some things easily (for example, simple math, or sorting a list of names from A-to-Z). Computers cannot do some things, though. Computers cannot answer questions that do not have enough details, or questions that have no answer. Computers can answer some questions, but may take too much time. As an example, it may take too long to find the shortest way through all the towns in the USA, so every so often a computer scientist will look for a nearly full answer (an approximation). A computer will answer these kind of questions much faster. Answering the question. Algorithms have to do with the way computers answer questions. Take playing cards, for example. A computer scientist may want to sort the cards, first by color, and then by order (like 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, Jack, Queen, King, and Ace). The computer scientist may see different ways to sort the playing cards. If the way has a detailed account of how to sort the cards, the scientist has made an algorithm. The scientist first needs to test if the algorithm does what it should in all events. The scientist can then see how well it sorts the cards. A simple, but poor, algorithm would: drop the cards, group them up, and see if they look sorted. If not, do it again. This will work, but will probably take a very long time. A person may better do this by looking through all the cards, finding the one that goes in the first position (2 of diamonds), and putting it at the start. After this, he looks for the second position, and so on. This works much faster, and does not need as much space. Computer science left the other sciences near the end of the 20th century and made its own ways of doing things and its own group of word uses. It has to do with electrical engineering, mathematics, and language science. Computer science looks at the theoretical (not real) parts of computers. Computer engineering looks at the real parts of computers (those that a person could touch), and software engineering looks at the use of computer programs and how to make them.  
Computer	A Computer is a machine that manipulates data according to a set of instructions. Computers are able to do mathematical calculations. Modern computers can do complex mathematical computations -- billions per minute. Computers have been used to control industrial operations, which used to be routine clerical work. Recently, they have spread to the home, where they are used for media, web browsing and desktop applications. History of computing. It is difficult to identify any particular device as the earliest computer. This is because the meaning of the word "computer" has changed over time. Originally, the word referred to a person who did numerical calculations (a human computer). Human computers often used mechanical calculating devices to help them solve their problems. The history of the modern computer begins with two separate technologies - that of automated calculation and that of programmability. Examples of early mechanical calculating devices include the abacus, the slide rule and arguably the astrolabe and the Antikythera mechanism (which dates from about 150-100 BC). Hero of Alexandria (c. 10–70 AD) built a mechanical theater which performed a play lasting 10 minutes and was operated by a complex system of ropes and drums that might be considered to be a means of deciding which parts of the mechanism performed which actions and when. This is the essence of programmability. The "castle clock", an astronomical clock invented by Al-Jazari in 1206, is considered to be the earliest programmable analog computer. It displayed the zodiac, the solar and lunar orbits, a crescent moon-shaped pointer travelling across a gateway causing automatic doors to open every hour, and five robotic musicians who play music when struck by levers operated by a camshaft attached to a water wheel. The length of day and night could be re-programmed every day in order to account for the changing lengths of day and night throughout the year. At the end of the Middle Ages, European mathematics and engineering became more important. In 1623, Wilhelm Schickard constructed a device that is seen as the earliest of a number of mechanical calculators constructed by European engineers. None of these devices fit the modern definition of a computer, because they could not be programmed. In 1801, Joseph Marie Jacquard made an improvement to the textile loom that used a series of punched paper cards as a template to allow his loom to weave intricate patterns automatically. The resulting Jacquard loom was an important step in the development of computers because the use of punched cards to define woven patterns can be viewed as an early, but limited, form of programmability. Only when automatic calculation was combined with programmability did the first computers in the modern sense result. In 1837, Charles Babbage was the first to make a design of a fully programmable mechanical computer. He called it the "The Analytical Engine". Because Babbage did not have enough money and could not resist changing the design all the time, he never built his Analytical Engine. Large-scale automated data processing of punched cards was performed for the U.S. Census in 1890 by tabulating machines designed by Herman Hollerith and manufactured by the Computing Tabulating Recording Corporation, which later became IBM. By the end of the 19th century a number of technologies that would later prove useful in the realization of practical computers had begun to appear: the punched card, Boolean algebra, the vacuum tube (thermionic valve) and the teleprinter. During the first half of the 20th century, many scientific computing needs were met by increasingly sophisticated analog computers, which used a direct mechanical or electrical model of the problem as a basis for computation. However, these were not programmable and generally lacked the versatility and accuracy of modern digital computers. Several developers of ENIAC saw its problems. They invented a more flexible and elegant design, which is known as "stored program architecture" or von Neumann architecture. This design was first formally described by John von Neumann in the paper "First Draft of a Report on the EDVAC", distributed in 1945. A number of projects to develop computers based on the stored-program architecture started around this time, the first of these was completed in Great Britain. The first to be demonstrated working was the Manchester Small-Scale Experimental Machine (SSEM or "Baby"), while the EDSAC, completed a year after SSEM, was the first practical implementation of the stored program design. Shortly thereafter, the machine originally described by von Neumann's paper—EDVAC—was completed but did not see full-time use for an additional two years. Nearly all modern computers implement the stored-program architecture in some form. It has become the main concept which defines a modern computer. Most of the technologies used to build computers have changed since the 1940s, but many current computers still use the von-Neumann architecture. Computers that used vacuum tubes as their electronic elements were in use throughout the 1950s. Vacuum tube electronics were largely replaced in the 1960s by transistor-based electronics, which are smaller, faster and cheaper to produce. They also need less power and are more reliable than vacuum tubes. In the 1970s, technologies were based on integrated circuits. Microprocessors, such as the Intel 4004, further decreased size and cost. They also made computers faster and more reliable. By the 1980s, computers became sufficiently small and cheap to replace simple mechanical controls in domestic appliances such as washing machines. The 1980s also saw home computers and the now ubiquitous personal computer. With the evolution of the Internet, personal computers are becoming as common as the television and the telephone in the household. In 2005 Nokia started to call its top-line smartphones of the N-series "multimedia computers" and after the launch of the Apple iPhone in 2007, many are now starting to add the smartphone category among "real" computers. In 2008, if the category of smartphones are included in the numbers of computers in the world, the biggest computer maker by units sold, is no longer Hewlett-Packard, but rather Nokia. Kinds of computers. A "desktop computer" is a small machine which is usually accompanied by a screen (which isn't part of the computer) and used at a household. "Laptop computers" are portable computers that are commonly used for work or personal media purposes. Both laptops and desktops are considered personal computers. "Mainframes" are large computers used for managing businesses or hosting servers. "Embedded computers" are computer systems that cannot be programmed by the user because they are preprogrammed for a specific task and are buried within the equipment they serve. For example, in mobile phones, Automatic Teller Machines, Microwave ovens, CD Players and Cars. How computers work. Computers store data and the instructions telling them what to do with the data as numbers, because computers can do things with numbers very quickly. These data are stored as binary symbols (1s and 0s). A 1 or a 0 symbol stored by a computer is called a bit, which comes from the words binary digit. Computers can use many bits together to represent instructions and the data that these instructions use. A list of these instructions is called a program and stored on the computer's hard disk. Computers use "memory" called "RAM" as a space to carry out the instructions and store data while it is doing these instructions. When the computer wants to store the results of the instructions for later, it uses the hard disk. An operating system tells the computer how to understand what jobs it has to do, how to do these jobs, and how to tell people the results. It tells the electronics inside the computer, or "hardware", how to work to get the results it needs. This lets most computers have the same operating system, or list of orders to tell it how to talk to the user, while each computer can have its own computer programs or list of jobs to do what its user needs. Having different programs and operating systems makes it easy to learn how to use computers for new things. When a user needs to use a computer for something different, the user can learn how to use a new program. Computers and the Internet. One of the most important jobs that computers do for people is helping with communication. Communication is how people share information. Computers have helped people move forward in science, medicine, business, and learning, because they let experts from anywhere in the world work with each other and share information. They also let other people communicate with each other, do their jobs almost anywhere, learn about almost anything, or share their opinions with each other. The Internet is the thing that lets people communicate between their computers. Blogs are used by many people to say what they want on the Internet. Some people spend most of their time reading and writing blogs. Many people from all over the world use them. Some people use them to write about things that happen to them. Experts can use them to help people learn more. Some blogs are used by companies to sell things. Computers and waste. A computer is now almost always an electronic device. It usually contains materials that will become toxic waste when disposed of. When a new computer is bought in some places, laws require that the cost of its waste management must also be paid for. This is called product stewardship. Computers can become obsolete quickly, depending on what programs the user runs. Very often, they are thrown away within two or three years, because newer programs require a more powerful computer. This makes the problem worse, so computer recycling happens a lot. Many projects try to send working computers to developing nations so they can be re-used and will not become waste as quickly, as most people do not need to run new programs. The main hardware in a computer. Computers come different forms, but most of them have a common architecture. A computer has several main parts. When comparing a computer to a human body, the CPU is like a brain. It does most of the 'thinking' and tells the rest of the computer how to work. The CPU is on the Motherboard, which is like the skeleton. It provides the basis for where the other parts go, and carries the nerves that connect them to each other and the CPU. The motherboard is connected to a power supply, which provides electricity to the entire computer. The various drives (CD drive, floppy drive, and on many newer computers, USB drive) act like eyes, ears, and fingers, and allow the computer to read different types of storage, in the same way that a human can read different types of books. The hard drive is like a human's memory, and keeps track of all the data stored on the computer. Most computers have a sound card or another method of making sound, which is like vocal cords, or a voice box. Connected to the sound card are speakers, which are like a mouth, and are where the sound comes out. Computers might also have a graphics card, which helps the computer to create visual effects, such as 3D environments, or more realistic colors, and more powerful graphics cards can make more realistic or more advanced images, in the same way a well trained artist can.  
Chinese	Chinese means from or about the country of China, especially a person from China or one of the languages of China. Chinese Writing. Chinese Writing does not use letters. It has but 50,000 different characters, each one made of different lines. There are many different Chinese languages but they all write using the same characters. Each line of Chinese is written starting at the top of the page and working downwards. The lines are written working from the right to the left of the page. There are two types of Chinese writing, traditional and simplified. In modern China, most Chinese people do not write the traditional way. Instead, they use a computer. The most popular way to use a computer keyboard is to type Chinese is called Pinyin. Chinese writing is often made into a type of art, called calligraphy, which means making art from writing.  
Continent	A continent is a large area of the land on Earth that is joined together. People do not agree about how many continents there are. In general it is agreed there are seven continents. Oceania is a region which includes Australia, New Zealand and the Pacific Islands. Some say that Oceania is not a continent but it is often treated like one. Other groups believe that it is a continent and that Australia is just a part of this continent and not its own continent. Some say that North America and South America are one continent. Some say that Europe and Asia are only parts of a continent called Eurasia. Some even say that Eurasia and Africa are one continent called Eurafrasia. When British people talk about "the Continent" (or "Continental") they mean the European mainland. This meaning is not used as much as it used to be, but is still seen in phrases like "Continental breakfast" (rolls with cheese, jam etc as distinct from an "English breakfast" which is a cooked breakfast).  
Classical element	The Greek classical elements are fire, air, water, and earth. In Greek philosophy, science and medicine, these make up a whole. The image below has two squares on top of each other. The corners of one are the classical elements. The corners of the other are the properties. Galen said these elements were used by Hippocrates to describe the human body. The elements are linked to the four humours: phlegm (water), yellow bile (fire), black bile (earth), and blood (air). In Chinese Taoism the elements are metal, wood, water, fire, earth (金、木、水、火、土).  
China	China (中國) is an ancient region in Asia. History. China has one of the oldest civilizations in the world. It has a recorded history for over five thousand years. It reached its golden age during the Tang Dynasty (about A.D. 10th century). China is home to some of the oldest artwork in the world. Statues and pottery, as well as decorations made of jade, are some classic examples. China's economic and military strength throughout the world was oppressed during the Qing Dynasty (around the 17th century to 20th century). Many of its lands were lost to Russia, the British, the Japanese and other strong countries. In 1911 a country, the Republic of China was founded by Sun Yat-sen (Sun Yixian). But its government was very weak. Army leaders in different area controlled the local governments, and later fell into the dictatorship of Chiang Kai-shek (Jiang Jieshi). In 1931, Japan invaded Manchuria, a place in the northeastern part of China. On July 7, 1937, the Japanese attacked the rest of the country, starting what was named the Sino-Japanese War. The war later became part of World War II. The war was fought for eight years and millions of Chinese people were killed. In 1945, after the United States dropped two atomic bombs on Hiroshima and Nagasaki, Japan surrendered unconditionally to the Allied Powers. However, the Chinese Civil War later started between the Kuomindang (Nationalists) of the Republic of China (ROC) and the Communists of the People's Republic of China (PRC).One side wanted to make China like Soviet Union, whreas the other side wanted to keep china in its current state at the time, which caused chaos and lots of people died in the Chinese Civil War. the Chinese Civil War was going on throughout World War II. The Communists, led by Mao Zedong, Liu Shaoqi and others. Later Shaoqi lost influence on Mao and his death to this day remains unresolved. Communists eventually won the war. The Nationalists (led by Chiang Kai-shek) fled to the island of Taiwan and set up their new capital city in Taipei.After the Chinese Civil War, the communist leader Mao Zedong declared a new country, the People's Republic of China (PRC), in Beijing on October 1, 1949. Arts. China is the original birth place of Eastern martial arts, called Kung Fu or its first name Wushu. China is also the home of the well-respected Spa Monastery and Wudang Mountains. The first generation of martial art started more for the purpose of survival and warfare than art. Over time some art forms have branched off, while others have retained their distinct Chinese flavor. Regardless, China has brewed some of the most renowned artists including Wong Fei Hung (Huang Fei Hung or Hwang Fei Hung) and many others. Art has also co-existed with a variety of paints including the more standard 18 colors. Legendary and controversial moves like Big Mak are also praised and talked about within the culture.  
Country	In geography, a country is a political division. It is often a sovereign territory. The term is most commonly associated with both state and nation, and also with government. For example, the United States of America is a country.  
Colchester	Colchester is a town in the northern part of the English county of Essex. It has a population of 104,000 people. People believe that Colchester is oldest Roman town that that is known in England. History. Before Roman times, Colchester was "Camulodunon". This is a Celtic name that came from Camulos. Camulos was the Celtic god of war. The Romans called Colchester "Camulodunum" (written "CAMVLODVNVM"). Colchester was attacked and burnt by Boudicca in 61 AD. The church at the Benedictine abbey of Saint John the Baptist was destroyed in 1539. This was when King Henry VIII took the property of the Roman Catholic institutions in England. The only part left is a gate that people still go to visit. King Cunobelinus (or "Cunobelin") was from Colchester.  
Cartography	Cartography is making maps. Cartography is part of geography. How people make maps is always changing. In the past, maps were drawn by hand, but today most printed maps are made using computers. Making a map can be as simple as drawing a direction on a napkin, or as complicated as showing a census of a whole country. Anyone can make a map, but there are people who spend their lives learning how to make complicated maps. Cartographers in the media. Various cartographers appear in the media, notably Wally the Cartographer from Monkey Island.  
Creator	A Creator is a person who creates something. In some religions (Judaism, Christianity, Islam) God (or Allah meaning the God in Arabic) is the most important and original Creator of the whole Universe - including Man who is made "in his image"(see Genesis) to observe it and control it like God. The idea that anything that a person is creating, like an idea, can be owned as property comes from the ethical traditions and legal codes that came from these religions. In other traditions (Buddhism, Native American religions) anyone has this potential for creating, and can become part of the greater creating of the universe. Stewardship of home, land and all of Earth is a test for participating in this, or just good sense. Sometimes this belief is not well understood, and poorly translated (such as the verb in Native American languages meaning "the greatest creating" being translated into English as Creator) by those who only understand the "Man in God's image" view. This view has often been projected onto people who do not believe in it, along with concepts of intellectual rights inappropriate for those peoples.  
Contact network	A contact network is a group of people who can all quickly get in touch with each other. It does not guarantee any kind of help or access to knowledge other than that. A creative network, social network and power network are also contact networks. These include some kind of guarantee or expectation of help. Thus they involve more investment per person.  
Creative network	A creative network is a loose group of people creating something in art or science or business. It is never larger than about a dozen people who may move from one project to another as a troupe or team. They have only a few goals at a time, and never more than one major goal. Each person plays a tightly or loosely defined role in the network. For instance to make a movie a writer, director, producer and actors are needed. There may also be a need for a costumer, a cameraman (if the director cannot do it all), an audio engineer, and a film editor if the project is big enough and the schedule tight enough. Very often the roles and timing are determined by a power network (say the bank or studio that funds the project). However, the creative control remains within the small creative network.  
Chorizo	Chorizo is a pork (pig-meat) sausage which people first made in Spain. In it there is fatty pork in large pieces, with chili pepper and paprika. The special taste of this sausage comes from the mild Spanish paprika in it. In the western hemisphere, people know the Mexican and Caribbean sorts better. In these sorts of chorizo, the pork is in much smaller pieces. Different seasonings are also in it with the chili. People eat chorizo without cooking it, or they fry it in oil. People also use it as a part of other dishes, the same way they eat breakfast sausage. It can also be used in place of ground beef or pork.  
Creativity	Creativity (or creativeness) is the ability of a person to be creative, take part in creating, or be useful in a creative network of other people. It is very difficult to measure, and some think it should not be measured. The reason is that creativity can not be defined - although several attempts have been made, a shared definition of the concept of creativity still comes up short. Some think creativity is an important thing that makes humans different from apes. Others recognize that even apes, other primates, other mammals and some birds adapt to survive by being creative (for example - primates using tools). Liane Gabora believes that all culture comes from creativity, not imitation. Therefore, these people say, human science should focus on it: Ethics for example would focus on finding creative solutions to ethical dilemmas. Politics would focus on the political virtues that need some creativity. Imitation would not be the focus of education. Linguistics might be more interested in how new words are created by culture, rather than in how existing ones are used in grammar. Intellectual interests (recognized as intellectual rights or intellectual property in the law) are a way to reward creativity in law, but they do not always work very well. A good example is copyright which is supposed to pay authors and artists, but may only pay lawyers to make (imitative) arguments in court. Creativity is a central question in economics, where it is known as ingenuity (the ability to come up with new ideas) or individual capital - capacities that individuals have, that do not arise from simple imitation of what is known already. This is separate from the instructional capital that might try to capture some of that in a patent or training system that helps others do what the individual leader or founder of the system can do. In urban economics there are various ways to measure creativity - the Bohemian Index and Gay Index are two attempts to do this accurately and predict the economic growth of cities based on creativity. For information on creativity see  
Catharism	The Cathar faith was a version of Christianity. It was wiped out by the Roman Catholic Church in the 13th century by a Crusade. They were usually considered Gnostics. The word 'Cathar' comes the Greek word "katharos" meaning 'unpolluted' (from Tobias Churton, "The Gnostics") or "the pure ones". Principles. The Cathars believed that the world had been made by a bad god. The believed that this bad god had taken them from the good god put them the world but inside their bodies there was a spirit and that spirit needed to return to the good god. They were famous for a belief in a form of reincarnation and believed that when someone died the bad god would put that persons spirit in a new body. They believed this cycle of coming back to life could be escaped by a ritual cleansing. They were opposed to the doctrine of sin. Women were prominent in the faith. They were pacifists. They were vegetarians. They preached tolerance of other faiths. They rejected the usual Christian doctrine of marriage. An earlier 10th century Bulgarian heresy, Bogomilism, started some of these trends. Language. They used a bible in the language people spoke. Many other Christians used a Bible in Latin. Latin was spoken only by the priests. Problems. In 1145 open challenge to Catholic dominance began. In about 1165 the first Cathars said that the Church was "full of ravening wolves and hypocrites" and "worshipping the wrong God", right in front of the most powerful Catholics. In 1166 the Council of Oxford in England wiped out the English Cathars. It was also suppressed in Northern France. In 1167 Cathar bishops met to discuss organizing a counter Church - in the South of France, the Langedoc nobles protected it, and many noble women became "Perfects". Parish clergy had low morale. Reactions. All this was unpopular with the Roman Catholic Church, whose Pope, the Bishop of Rome, had begun to say he was infallible from the 11th century onwards. The pope also started to hold total authority over what was called "Christendom". Pope Innocent III's control by 1198 was not yet firm. In the South of France there was tremendous religious fervor, and an economy that was starting to grow, and a social class of merchants and peasants was starting to grow. Peasants owned their own land. Meanwhile, in other parts of Europe, peasants were forced to give up their land to nobles and become serfs or slaves - the system of feudalism. There was a strong central absolute monarchy that did not exist in the South of France. The burghers and bankers had more power in this looser system. R. I. Moore is a historian who believes that it was desire to crush this system and take over the land that drove the attack. However there was real cultural and religious difference to cause problems: Troubadors, who combined some of the traditions of the Bards of the Celts, and Jews, were both part of the multicultural society in the South of France. Their influences were not appreciated by local or Roman Church figures. The 12th century Roman Catholic Monks were founding their monasteries outside the towns, drawing the best people there. Results. The Cathars thus had little competition. The Cathar "Perfects", the so-called Good Men or Good Women, lived austere lives and spread their faith in towns - where the Catholics in general did not have their best agents. Also, Cathars preached that only these Good leaders had to follow the regimens their whole lives - lay people could repent only on their deathbeds. Many 20th century Christian sects have similar beliefs. Today Cathars would not be considered heretics. Methods. The Pope ordered a crusade against the Cathars in southern France. He said any crusader who answered the call would be given the same rewards as a crusader who went to the Holy Land. This was an absolution of all sin, a forgiveness of all debts, and all the pillaging and raping they could want. At Launguedoc, in July 1209, a force of about 30,000 Crusaders arrived at the walls of Beziers, and demanded that about 200 Cathars be surrendered. The people of the town who were mostly Catholic, said that rather than turn over their friends and kin, "we would rather be flayed alive." A mistake by the defenders of Beziers let thousands of attackers in. Arnaud Amaury, the Pope's official in charge of the crusade, supposedly said the famous phrase: 'Kill them all, God will know his own'. Everyone in the town was massacred, some while taking refuge in the church. It is guessed that 20,000 were killed, many of whom were Catholics and not Cathars at all. The crusade became known as the Albigensian crusade after the town of Albi. It was to wipe out the Cathars entirely over forty or so years. The Crusaders wanted to go home, but were ordered by the Pope to continue until the whole South of France was controlled and all Cathars were dead. In 1210 they attacked the fortress at Minerv and built "the first great bonfire of heretics" - beginning the practice of burning at the stake that would continue in the Inquisition of the Counter-Reformation. Results. The Albigensian crusade actually failed to destroy the Cathar beliefs from southern France. This would happen by a different sort of crusade, one that turned neighbor against neighbor and brother against brother. The shadow of the Inquisition fell over the south of France. In 1233, Pope Gregory IX sent Dominican monks to the Languedoc. They set up an office of the Inquisition and sent out notices that anyone who came and confessed would be forgiven. People became terrified that their neighbors had said something about them, so they went and turned in their neighbors first. It eventually got to the point where people were turning in the dead and corpses were dug up, burned and the property they had left their heirs was taken away by the Roman Catholic Church. A lot of this crusade was not so much about faith, at least not for the church, but money. If someone were turned in as a heretic, his property was taken by the church. In the end the Inquisition did wipe out most of the Cathars though it took well over a hundred years to get all of them. The last known Cathar follower was burned at the stake in the early 1300's. Every last Cathar "Perfect" was burned at the stake. At least those the Roman Catholic Church could find.  
Cosmology	Cosmology is the study of "all that is". It is part of both physics and religion, which sometimes compete to explain the same things. Some think that because the creatures creating all the models of our universe and ethical traditions and ideas of divine beings are studied in biology, that cosmology also should be really a part of biology. However, the dominant idea of scientific cosmology is the mechanistic paradigm which says that there is either an expanding universe or finite universe, and that the laws of physics are predictable in either, due to the geometry it "obeys". It cannot decide to violate these laws, as a living thing might do. Other laws might be possible, but we cannot know about that. In this paradigm, relativity is one of the most important ideas, and models of our universe are not allowed to vary much. However, this view cannot also explain quantum mechanics. Nor does it take into account cognitive limits which human science says can be important. So some newer theories prefer to say that cosmology is something biological creatures need or want to make our universe seem simpler and more predictable than it really might be. It might be for instance that since we think we can control and predict the machines we create, like clocks, we prefer a controlled and predictable model of the environment we live in. But some think that this is like saying that what is needed to explain a city is good enough to understand ecology in general. A related question is how limited mathematics might be as a way to explain reality. If it is very general and really similar for all beings we can say "we understand reality" with it. But if it is very different for aliens or whales then we cannot say this - it would be arrogant to assume it until we do math with other beings. For this reason, most SETI signals are sent out with basic math like the Fibonacci sequence and the prime numbers, to see if other beings have the same ideas about these as we do - and can answer us back the same way. Many peoples have their own cosmology that today scientists and most religions do not accept. For instance in Renaissance Europe there were thought to be crystal spheres that rotated - with all the stars on one, and each planet on its own. These circled the Earth. In Ancient Egypt there was a female sky-goddess who arched over the world, which was a male god. And in other traditions, the world was a giant sea-turtle floating in a giant ocean. These ideas were good enough to explain an island or watershed or continent that people lived on. Since they did not travel much, this was a "good enough" way to explain the world they actually lived in every day. Comparing various creation myths and world views from all over the world is part of anthropology. This is today considered separate from the astrophysics and astronomy that provide statistics for physics to explain. But the cosmology that a physicist produces is still considered a sort of creation myth, and scientists have no special status when these are debated in religion. Worldwide, most people believe that a divine being, or Creator, was or is still creating universe. They see the ethics of that divinity, not the physics created by humans, at the core of reality. (citation needed) One compromise is the fecund universes theory. In that theory, the multiverse is alive and growing, and creating "new universes" all the time. Humans are limited and can only see one of them and guess about others. Models of our universe help to suggest what those others might be like. But, we cannot be sure that laws of physics really vary as we think they might in a different universe. And, most important, there is no thinking or ethics or divine being necessarily involved in this continuous creation - it goes on splitting just like bacteria. This will not seem very special or divine to most people, but, it is compatible with all of the scientific data that we have so far. "See also:" string theory  
Church	A church is a "building" where people, (usually Christians), come together to worship. Also a religious group is called a church. Large Christian church buildings are called "cathedrals". Small churches are called "chapels". History of church buildings. In the early days of Christianity people had to worship in secret. Christian worship was not allowed in the Roman empire, so Christians had to meet in a secret place. Sometimes they met in people’s houses or barns, sometimes they met underground. The first places that were built for Christian worship were small chapels that were cut into a rock where people could worship without being discovered. After the death of the Roman emperor Constantine in 337 A.D. Christians were allowed to have buildings to worship in. These first churches were built on a similar plan to Roman basilicas. This plan was later used for the fine Gothic cathedrals and churches that were built at the end of the Middle Ages. The parts of a church. In Roman Catholic churches there is always a stoup (bowl) of holy water near the entrance of the church. This tradition comes from the fact that Roman basilicas had a fountain for washing in front of the entrance. The font is a bowl where people (often babies) are baptized. This is also near the entrance of the church. This is a symbol of the fact that it is welcoming the people into the Christian church. Traditionally the nave has long benches for the congregation to sit on. These are called pews. Some churches may now have replaced their pews with chairs so that they can be moved about for different occasions. At the front of the nave is the pulpit where the priest preaches (these talks are called “sermons”). There is also a lectern (like a large music stand) from where the lessons (the Bible readings) are read. If there are aisles along the side of the nave there will be pillars which hold up the roof. In large churches or cathedrals there may be a row of little arches along the top of these pillars. This is called the triforium. Over the triforium is the clerestory which is a row of small windows high up in the church wall. The chancel is the most holy part of the church, and this is why it is often separated from the nave by a screen which can be made of wood or stone, or occasionally iron. The congregation can see through the screen. On the top of the screen there may be a cross. This is called a rood (pronounce like “rude”) screen. Priests used to climb up a staircase to the top of the rood screen to read the epistle and the gospel. Sometimes people sung from there. Inside the chancel are the benches where the choir sit. These are called choir stalls. They are on both sides. The two sides of the choir sit facing one another. The choir members who sit on the left (north side) are called “cantoris” (the side where the “cantor” sits) and those on the right (south side) are called “decani” (the side where the deacon sits). In some large churches or cathedrals the seats for the priests tip up. The top of these seats, when they are tipped up, are called misericords (from the Latin word for “mercy”). This is because the priests or monks were able to lean against them when they got tired if they had to stand up for a long time (it comes from the Latin word for "mercy"). Sometimes there are holes in the walls of the screen so that the congregation can see through. These are called squints. If there is a recess in the wall it is called an aumbry. It is a cupboard for communion wine that has been blessed by a priest. The altar may be right at the east end of the church, but in larger churches or cathedrals it is often much further forward. In that case the very east end is called an apse. Sometimes it is a separate chapel called the “Lady Chapel”. Churches through the ages. The design of churches changed a lot during the course of history. Often churches were made bigger. When this happened there may be a mixture of architectural styles. These styles vary a lot in different countries. English churches. In the 1600s churches were built in a variety of styles. Often they copied some of the older styles. After the Great Fire of London many new churches were built by the architect Sir Christopher Wren. They were built in the classical style. Churches continued to be built in later centuries like this, but also the Gothic style continued to be used. Modern churches often do not have the traditional cross-shape. It is difficult for the congregation to see and hear what is happening in the chancel. Modern churches bring the congregation, choir and priests in closer touch. An example is the round design for the Church of Christ the Cornerstone in Milton Keynes. Modern churches are often simpler but with a warmer character than the Gothic churches. Many have beautiful mosaic glass windows. Coventry Cathedral is an famous example of a modern church building.  
City	A city is a place where many people live together. A city has many buildings and streets. It has houses or apartments for many people to live, shops where they may buy things, places for people to work and a government organisation to run the city, and to keep law and order in the city. Many people live in cities because it is easy for them to find and do the things they want there. A city usually has a "city centre" where government and business take place, and places called suburbs where people live around the outside of the centre. What makes a city? There is no rule that is used all over the world to decide why some places are called "city" and other places are called "town". In American English, people often call all places cities. (See below: Size of cities) Size of cities. The sizes of cities can be very different. This depends on the type of city it is. Cities that were built hundreds of years ago and which have not changed much, are very much smaller than modern cities. There are two main reasons. One is because old cities often have a city wall, and most of the city is inside it. Another important reason is because the streets in old cities are often narrow. If the city got too big, it was hard for a cart carrying food to get to the market place. People in cities need food, and the food always has to come from outside the city. Cities that were on a river like London could grow much bigger than cities that were on a mountain like Siena in Italy, because the river made a transport route for carrying food and other goods, as well as for transporting people. London has been changing continually for hundreds of years, while Siena, which was a very important city in the 1300s has changed very little in 700 years. Modern cities with modern transport systems can grow very large, because the streets are wide enough for cars, buses and trucks, and there are often railway lines as well. In the US, the word city is often used for towns that are not very big. When the first European people went to America, they gave the name "city" to new places. They hoped the places would be great cities in the future. For example, Salt Lake City was the name given to a village of 148 people. When they started building the town they made street plans and called it Great Salt Lake City (for the nearby Great Salt Lake). Now, 150 years later, it really is a big city. In modern times many cities have grown bigger and bigger. The whole area is often called a "metropolis" and can sometimes includes several small ancient towns and villages. The "metropolis" of London includes the City of London, the City of Westminster and many old villages such as Notting Hill, Southwark, Richmond and Greenwich. The part that is officially known as the "City of London" only takes up one square mile. (See the picture) The rest is known as "Greater London". Many other cities have grown in the same way. These giant cities can be exciting places to live, and many people can find good jobs there, but modern cities also have many problems. Many people cannot find jobs in the cities and have to get money by begging or by crime. Cars, factories, and garbage create a lot of pollution that makes people sick. History. The first cities were made in ancient times, as soon as people began to create civilization. Famous ancient cities which fell to ruins included Babylon, Troy, Mycenae and Mohenjo Daro. Benares in northern India is one among the ancient cities which has a history of more 3000 years. Other cities that have existed since ancient times are Athens in Greece, Rome and Volterra in Italy, Alexandria in Egypt and York in England. In Europe, in the Middle Ages, being a city was a special privilege, granted by nobility. Cities that fall into this category, usually had (or still have) city walls. The people who lived in the city were privileged over those who did not. Medieval cities that still have walls include Carcassonne in France, Toledo in Spain and Canterbury in England. In the United Kingdom, a city is a town which people have always called a city, or which has got the name "city" status by royal charter (a special paper from the king or queen). Cities usually get this because they have a special number of people or are important. In the past, cities got that name if they had a cathedral or a university. Some cathedral cities, for example St David's, are small, and people do not normally think of them as cities. Cities that became cities because of their university generally grow because more people move there to be educated at the university colleges. The university cities of Oxford and Cambridge are famous throughout the world. In modern Europe, any town with at least 10,000 people in it can call itself city. Many cities that have their status from the Middle Ages are actually smaller than 10,000 people.  
Cook	To cook food is to make it ready to eat by heating it. People can cook food with fire using wood or charcoal, with a stove that uses propane or natural gas, or with a stove that uses electricity. An oven is a part of a stove that is like a box. People also build ovens out of clay or bricks. There are several different ways to cook food. We boil food by cooking it in water. We fry food by cooking it in hot butter or vegetable oil. We bake food by keeping it hot in an oven. We roast or grill food by holding it over a hot fire. People often cook meat by boiling or roasting it. People bake bread. Some breads are fried. Usually we cook the food in some kind of pot or pan. But people sometimes cook food by putting it directly into the fire, by wrapping the food in leaves before they put it into the fire, or holding it over a fire with a stick. Before foods are cooked, we say they are raw. Some foods are good to eat raw. Other foods are not good for the body when they are raw, so they must be cooked. Some foods are good to eat either raw or cooked. A person whose job it is to cook food may be called a cook or a chef. But the word cooker means a machine or tool that a cook might use to cook food, such as a "rice cooker." To many people, cooking is an art. To many other people, it is a job. Cooking as an art is preparing the food so it tastes and looks really good. Economy. There is a large economy for cooking in the world. Restaurants hire skilled cooks for large amounts of money and customers pay for expensive meals.  
Chat	To chat is to talk about ordinary things that are not very important. You can chat to one person or to many people. People also use this word now for parts of the Internet where we can talk with many different people at the same time. Usually, you chat on the Internet in a chat room or messaging service like AOL Instant Messenger (AIM), Yahoo Messenger Windows Live Messenger or Tencent QQ. There are also programs which which let you use different messaging services from one program, such as Pidgin.  
Cup	Some are expensive, maybe old, mostly painted by hand; a few people collect such cups, and do not use them. A cup is also a unit of liquid measurement in some countries. A cup can also be an award.  
Crime	A crime is when a person does something that is against the laws of a country. A person who does this is called a criminal. The basic idea of what things are called crimes is that they are thought to be things that might cause a problem for another person. Things like killing another person, injuring another person, or stealing from another person are crimes in most countries. But different countries have many different ideas of what things are crimes. Some things that are crimes in one country are not crimes in other countries. Many countries get their ideas of what things are crimes from religions. In many countries, if people say they made or wrote a book, movie, song, or Web page that they didn't really write or make, it is a crime against the laws of copyright. In many countries, helping to grow, make, move, or sell illegal drugs is a crime. In most countries, police try to stop crimes and to find criminals. When the police find someone who they think might be a criminal, they usually hold the person in a jail. Then, usually, a court or a judge decides if the person really did a crime. If the court or judge decides that the person really did it, then he or she might have to pay a fine or go to prison. Sometimes the judge might decide that the criminal should be executed (killed). This is called Capital punishment (or the "Death Penalty"). There are countries in the world who execute criminals, and others who do not. When some criminals make money from crime, they try to stop the police finding out where the money came from by money laundering.  
Time Cube	Time Cube is a website created by Gene Ray. On that website, Dr. Ray explains his "Time Cube" theory, which describes the planet Earth as having a cubic symmetry, and time as rotating four "corners". Many scientists reject these ideas, saying that they make no sense and cannot be tested. The Time Cube website is written in an angry and hateful voice. On his site, Ray says that anyone who does not believe in Time Cube is "stupid and evil". Some of the comments are racist, especially against black people and Jews. There are also many comments against gay people. Many people find the site to be difficult to understand. Ray has spoken about Time Cube at two universities in the United States, MIT and Georgia Tech. At MIT, a dean tried to cancel the lecture before it had taken place. Ray sees this as proof of a conspiracy to keep information about Time Cube hidden.  
Census of Marine Life	The Census of Marine Life is a ten year survey of life in the oceans, starting in 2000. Its head is Ron O'Dor of Dalhousie University in Halifax, Nova Scotia, Canada. It uses data from researchers all over the world. More than 70 nations are involved and over a billion US dollars will be spent on it. It is a major work of marine ecology. It is trying to do what the World Wide Fund for Nature (WWF) and National Geographic Society did for terrestrial ecoregions - say exactly what is alive on the planet. In this case, in the seas.  
Maize	Maize (called corn is some countries) is a member of the grass family "Poaceae". It is a cereal grain that was first grown by people in ancient Central America. It is now the third most important cereal crop in the world. It is used as a food staple by many people in Mexico, Central and South America and parts of Africa. In Europe and the rest of North America, maize is grown mostly for use as animal feed. In Canada and the United States, maize is commonly referred to as "corn."  
Civics	Civics is the study of government. Since a city has the most unsimple government problems, the word for this study is like that for city.  
Calculus	Calculus is the part of mathematics which looks at things that change over time. It tries to say what type of change it is and how big it is using functions at the exact moment at which the change is taking place. There are two different types of calculus. Differential calculus divides things into small pieces and tells us how they change from one moment to the next, while integral calculus joins the small pieces together and tells us how much of something is made by a change. It is used in a lot of different fields such as physics, astronomy, biology, engineering, economics, medicine and sociology. History. In the 1670s and 1680s, Sir Isaac Newton in England and Gottfried Leibniz in Germany developed calculus at the same time, working separately from each other. Newton wanted to design a system to predict the positions of the planets in the sky, because astronomy has always been a popular and useful form of science, and knowing more about the motions of the objects in the night sky was important for navigation of ships. Leibniz wanted to work out the area under a curve (a line which is not straight). Many years later, the two men argued over who discovered it first. Scientists from England supported Newton, but scientists from continental Europe supported Leibniz. Most mathematicians today, however, agree that both men share the credit equally. Some parts of modern calculus come from Newton, such as its uses in physics. Other parts come from Leibniz, such as the symbols used to write it. They were not the first people to use mathematics to describe the physical world—Aristotle and Pythagoras came earlier, as did Galileo who said that mathematics was the language of science. But they were the first to design a system that describes how things change over time and can predict how they will change in the future. The name "calculus" was the Latin word for a small stone the ancient Romans used in counting and gambling. The English word "calculate" comes from the same Latin word. Differential calculus. Differential calculus is the process of finding out the rate of change of a variable compared to another variable. It can be used to find the speed of a moving object, the slope of a curve, figuring out the maximum or minimum points of a curve or to find answers to problems in the electricity and magnetism areas of physics, and many other uses. Many amounts can be variables, which can change their value unlike numbers such as 5 or 200. Some examples of variables are distance and time. The speed of an object is how far it travels in a particular time. So if a town is 80 kilometres (50 miles) away and a person in a car gets there in one hour, they have travelled at an average speed of 80 kilometres (50 miles) per hour. But this is only an average—they may have been travelling faster at some times (on a highway) and slower at others (at a traffic light or on a small street where people live). Imagine a driver trying to figure out a car's speed using only its odometer (distance meter) and clock, without a speedometer! Until calculus was invented, the only way to work this out was to cut the time into smaller and smaller pieces, so the average speed over the smaller time would get closer and closer to the actual speed at a point in time. This was a very long and hard process and had to be done each time people wanted to work something out. A very similar problem is to find the slope (how steep it is) at any point on a curve. The slope of a "straight" line is easy to work out—it is simply how much it goes up ("y" or vertical) divided by how much it goes across ("x" or horizontal). On a "curve", though, the slope is a variable (has different values at different points) because the line bends. But if the curve was to be cut into very, very small pieces, the curve at the point would look almost like a very short straight line. So to work out its slope, a straight line can be drawn through the point with the same slope as the curve at that point. If it is done exactly right, the straight line will have the same slope as the curve, and is called a tangent. But there is no way to know (without very complicated mathematics) whether the tangent is exactly right, and our eyes are not accurate enough to be certain whether it is exact or simply very close. What Newton and Leibniz found was a way to work out the slope (or the speed in the distance example) exactly using simple and logical rules. They divided the curve into an infinite number of very small pieces. They then chose points on either side of the point they were interested in and worked out tangents at each. As the points moved closer together towards the point they were interested in, the slope "approached" a particular value as the tangents approached the real slope of the curve. They said that this particular value it approached was the actual slope. Let's say we have a function "y" = f("x"). f is short for function, so this equation means "y is a function of x". This tells us that how high y is on the vertical axis depends on what x (the horizontal axis) is at that time. For example with the equation "y" = "x"², we know that if "x" is 1, then "y" will be 1; if "x" is 3, then "y" will be 9; if "x" is 20, then "y" will be 400. formula_1 If we use y = x², the derivative produced using this method is 2"x", or 2 multiplied by "x". So we know without having to draw any tangent lines that at any point on the curve "f(x)" = "x"², the derivative "f'(x)" (marked with an apostrophe) will be 2"x" at any point. This process of working out a slope using limits is called differentiation, or finding the derivative. formula_2 Mathematicians have grown this basic theory to make simple algebra rules which can be used to find the derivative of almost any function. Main idea of calculus. The main idea in calculus is called the "Fundamental Theorem of Calculus". This main idea is that the two calculus processes, differential and integral calculus, are opposites. That is, a person can use differential calculus to undo an integral calculus process. Also, a person can use integral calculus to undo a differential calculus method, just like if you add a number to another number you can 'undo' it by taking away that number. How to use integral calculus to find areas. The method integral calculus uses to find areas of shapes is to break the shape up into many small boxes, and add up the area of each of the boxes. This gives an approximation to the area. If the boxes are made narrower and narrower, then there are more and more of them, and the area of all the boxes becomes very close to the area of the shape. One of the main ideas of calculus is that we can imagine having an infinite number of these boxes, each infinitely narrow, and then we would have the exact area of the shape. Other uses of calculus. Calculus is used to describe things that change such as Nature. Calculus can be used to show how waves move. Waves are very important in the natural world. For example, sound and light can be thought of as waves. Calculus can be used to show how heat moves. Calculus can be used to show how very small things like atoms act. Calculus can be used to learn how fast something will fall. Calculus can be used to learn the path of the moon as it moves around the earth. Calculus can be used to find the path of the earth as it moves around the sun.  
Coin	A coin is normally a round piece of metal that is used as currency. Coins have been made for about 2600 years; the first place to make coins was Lydia (modern Turkey). Appearance. Many coins have complex decorations; one side often has the picture of a head on it. Most people use coins as currency. Uses. The different decorations on each side of a coin might be used to decide things randomly. This is called "tossing a coin". A person can throw the coin into the air and catch it. You then look at which picture is facing up. If the head is facing up it is called "heads", if the other picture is facing up it is called "tails". Before tossing the coin someone has to decide what each picture means. Gambling. Tossing a coin can be a type of gambling, which is illegal (against the law) in some countries, but it depends, of course, if something is gambled upon with a price someone risks or if it's just merely to decide something, so it's hard to take a real gamble with coins. Other views. Some people see coins as a sign as greed, such as some Communists and Puritans, who sometimes condemn over-hoarding of coins, and ascetics, who often keep little in the ways of money (coins), leading a "poor"-lifestyle. Collecting. Because coins have been made for a very long time, some people collect old coins. They are much cheaper than other old things, especially if they are made of cheap metals like copper. Older coins normally cost more than newer ones, but rarity matters more-some coins from the 1920s cost vast sums, while some Roman coins cost very little.  
Conceptual metaphor	A conceptual metaphor is a metaphor that is used very often without being stated clearly. It is often implied in many idioms. Usually a conceptual metaphor can be restated more clearly using the word "as" or making several more specific comparisons using the word "like" - both are called similes.  
Crust	The crust of a piece of bread is the edge where it is harder and darker.  
Comedy	A comedy is a kind of play (acting in a theater), television show or a movie that is funny, silly, or that makes people laugh. Comedies may also show people telling jokes and funny stories. People who are known for acting in comedies are comedians. History. Comedy plays have been around for thousands of years. The ancient Greeks had comedy plays. Many comedy plays were written in the 1500s by the British writer William Shakespeare. Shakespeare's comedy plays include:" All’s Well That Ends Well, The Comedy of Errors, A Midsummer Nights Dream", and "Twelfth Night". Sandre Comedy. There are different types of comedy. One type of comedy is called "slap stick comedy." In "slap stick comedy," people just do silly things such as tripping, falling over or embarrassing themselves just to make people laugh. Slap stick comedy can be used in comedy movies or comedy television shows. Slap stick comedy was used a lot in silent (no sound) movies from the 1920s. A comedian who acted in the silent movies who used a lot of slapstick comedy was Charlie Chaplin. In the 1950s and 1960s, the comedian Jerry Lewis also used silly slap stick comedy in his comedy movies. Stand-up comedy. Another type of comedy is "stand-up comedy." In "stand-up comedy", a comedian (person who tries to make people laugh) stands up in front of a crowd and tells jokes and silly stories. Some comedians, such as Jerry Seinfeld, work as stand-up comedians as a job (way to make money). Other comedians do stand-up comedy in nightclubs (bars where adults drink alcohol and relax) as a hobby (activity that a person does for fun). Comedy movies. Comedy movies are very popular type of movie. Some comedy movies have "slapstick comedy," in which people just do silly things such as tripping, falling over or embarrassing themselves just to make people laugh. Other comedy movies show funny stories or situations in which people are behaving in a silly manner. Some comedies make the audience laugh by showing strange or unusual images or situations that do not make sense. Different types of comedy movies. Some types of comedy movies mix comedy with other types of movies. *There is a type of movie called a dramedy, which is a mix of a drama movie and a comedy movie. Comedy television shows. Comedy shows are very popular on television. Comedy shows on television are often called "sitcoms." The word "sitcom" is a shortened way of saying "situational comedy." Television situational comedies usually show characters who do silly or funny things which make the audience laugh.  
Comet	A comet is a ball of mostly ice that moves around in outer space. It is similar to an asteroid. In Earth's solar system, the orbits of comets go farther than Pluto, a dwarf planet that used to be the farthest planet from the Sun. Most are very far away from the Sun, but some come near enough to Earth for us to see at night. They have long "tails", because the Sun melts the ice. Sometimes people call them "dirty snowballs" or "shooting stars". The hard centre of the comet is the "nucleus". It is one of the blackest things in the solar system. When light shone on Comet Halley's nucleus, only 4% of the light shone back to us. "Periodic" comets visit again and again. "Non-periodic" or "single-apparition" comets visit only once. People have seen some comets when they broke into pieces: Comet Biela was one example. Another comet was seen when it hit a planet: Comet Shoemaker-Levy 9 hit Jupiter in 1994. Some comets orbit (go around) together in groups. Astronomers think these comets are broken pieces that used to be one object. History of comets. In old times, people used to be scared of comets. They didn't know what they were, or where they came from. Some thought that they were fireballs sent from demons or gods to destroy the earth. They said that each time a comet appeared, it would bring bad luck with it. Whenever a comet appeared, a king would die. One of these examples is shown in the Bayeux Tapestry, when Halley's Comet returned. Comets were also known to end wars and thought to bring famine. It was not until the Renaissance when scientists started to look at comets with less superstition and base their observations on science. Tycho Brahe reasoned that comets did not come from the earth, and his calculations showed that comets must be six times further than the earth is from the moon. Edmond Halley (whom Halley's Comet is named after) reasoned that comets are periodic, that is, they appear once every several hundreds of years. This led to the first prediction of a comet's return, Halley's Comet. In honor of this prediction, Halley's Comet was named. Issac Newton also studied comets, but he thought that comets were do to "vapours rising from the soil". In other words, he thought that gasses came up from the ground to form comets. Newton later said that comets make U-turns around the sun. He asked Edmond Halley to publish the research in his book "Philosophiae Natrualis Principia Mathematica". Before Newton said this, people believed that comets go in to the sun, then another comes out from behind the sun. All this new information and research gave people confidence, but some still thought that comets were messengers from the gods. One 18th century vision said that comets were the places that hell was, where souls would ride, being burned up by the heat of the sun and frozen by the cold of space. Although today we know a lot about comets, there will always be people who will be afraid when a comet returns.  
Cytology	Cytology is the study of the cells, the small parts that make up all living things, and their effects on each other and their environment.  
Christian	A Christian is a person who believes in Christianity, a monotheistic religion. Christianity is mostly about the life and teachings of Jesus Christ, in the New Testament and interpreted of prophesied in the Hebrew Bible/Old Testament. They are asked in the bible to follow commandments such as "Do not murder" and "honor your parents" and "do not steal" Some Christians go to church, it is believed to be important for the religion, but someone can be christian without a church. It is said all Christians are part of the church of christ wether or not they actually go to one  
Cheese	Cheese is a solid food made from milk. It can be soft or firm. It is made by removing water from milk. People may store cheese in a refrigerator, to make sure it does not go bad. Its color varies, most commonly pictured as yellow. Cheese is rich in proteins and fats. It also contains vitamin A, calcium and phosphorus. How it is made. Cheese is usually made using milk. Cheese makers usually cook the milk in a large pots and add salt and a substance from the stomach of young cows called rennet. This curdles the cheese, it makes it solid. There are special pots for making cheese. Often, these pots are called "vats". Some makers do not add rennet and curdle it in other ways. One way which factories use is using bacteria. Other ingredients are added and the cheese is usually aged for a short time.  
Constitution	The constitution of a country (or a state) is a special type of law that tells how its government is supposed to work. It tells how the country's leaders are to be chosen and how long they get to stay in office, how new laws are made and old laws are to be changed or removed, what kind of people are eligible to vote and what other rights they are guaranteed, and how the constitution can be changed. Limits are put on the Government in how much power they have within the Constitution "(see Rule of Law)". On the other hand, countries with repressive or corrupt governments frequently do not stick to their constitutions, or have bad constitutions. This can be known as dictatorship or simply "bending the rules". A Constitution is often a way of a uniting within a Federation. Scholars don't agree whether the UK has a Constitution or not. There is a debate because the UK has parts of its Constitution codified (written) and uncodified (not written). If the constitution is uncodified, then sources for the agreement are still accessible, they are just written in different various political books or tradition, instead of written all in one place like a codified Constitution. History. The Magna Carta of England, written in 1215, was an early type of constitution. The first modern constitution in the world was that of the United States in 1787, but some Native American tribes had similar charters before that. The U.S. has one of the oldest constitutions that people are still using, and it has been changed (amended) many times over the years. It was made after the colonists won their independence from Britain. At first they had the Articles of Confederation but the Articles seemed too weak so they were replaced with today's Constitution...  
Circle	A circle is a round two-dimensional shape, such as the letter "o". The centre of a circle is the point in the very middle. The radius of a circle is a line from the centre of the circle to a point on the side. All points on the circle are at the same distance from the centre. In other words, the radius is the same length all the way around the circle. Mathematicians use the letter "r" for the length of a circle's radius. The diameter (meaning "all the way across") of a circle is a straight line that goes from one side to the opposite and right through the centre. Mathematicians use the letter "d" for the length of this line. The diameter of a circle is equal to twice its radius ("d" equals 2 times "r"). The circumference (meaning "all the way around") of a circle is line that goes around the circle. Mathematicians use the letter "c" for the length of this line. The number "π" (written as the Greek letter "pi") is a very useful number. It is the length of the circumference divided by the length of the diameter ("π" equals "c" divided by "d"). The number π is equal to about or 3.14159. The area, "a", inside a circle is equal to the radius multiplied by itself, then multiplied by π ("a" equals π times ("r" times "r")). Calculating π. π can be empirically measured by drawing a large circle, then measuring its diameter and circumference, since the circumference of a circle is always π times its diameter.  
Capitalization	Capitalise (British spelling) or capitalize (North American spelling) means to make one or more characters upper case. The first letter of a sentence is capitalised in many languages, as are the first letters of proper nouns such as names of people and places. In German, however, all nouns are capitalized. It is the only language to do that. The homonym capitalize is a different word, and means "to fully fund as an investment".  
Cuba	Cuba is a country in the Caribbean sea. The country is made up of one big island and many smaller islands. It is near the United States, Mexico, Haiti, Jamaica and the Bahamas. People from Cuba are called Cubans, and they speak Spanish. Cuba has a warm climate, but has many hurricanes every year. The capital city of Cuba is Havana. In Spanish, the capital is called "La Habana". Culture. Cuba is famous for its many types of music, especially dance music such as Salsa and Mambo. Because Cubans come from Spain, Africa, South America and North America, Cuban music is special and different. Early history. Before Cuba was conquered by the Spaniards, three tribes lived on the island were the Taínos, the Ciboneys, and the Guanajatabeyes. The Taínos were the largest and most common of the three tribes. They farmed crops such as beans, corn, squash, and yams. The Taínos also slept in hammocks which the Spaniards would introduce to the rest of the world. Then, in 1492, Christopher Columbus arrived in Cuba on his first trip to the Americas. Three years later he claimed the islands for the Spanish. The Spanish began to rule Cuba afterwards. The Spanish brought thousands of slaves from Africa to Cuba to work for them. Most of the native Cubans died because of the new diseases brought by the Spanish and Africans. The Spanish also treated the native Cubans very cruelly and massacred many of them. The Spanish ruled for many years. Cuba became the most important producer of sugar. In the 19th century, Cubans rebelled against the Spanish rulers, but failed until 1898, when the United States went to war with the Spanish and defeated them. Cuba became American for four years afterwards, before it became an independent republic in 1902. Even though Cuba was independent, the Americans still controlled the island by a law called the Platt Amendment. In 1933 the Cubans stopped the Platt Amendment, but the Americans still had a big say in Cuban politics. Americans owned most of Cuba’s businesses. The Americans supported the leader Fulgencio Batista, who was seen by many Cubans as corrupt. Cuban revolution. In 1959, Fidel Castro led a revolution against Fulgencio Batista. Castro took power of Cuba with Che Guevara from Argentina, his brother Raul, and others who fought against Batista. Castro made many changes to Cuba and ended American ownership of Cuban businesses. This made Castro unpopular in America and the United States banned all contact with Cuba. Many Cubans also went to America because of this. In 1961 the Americans helped some of these Cubans to attack Cuba and remove Castro, but they failed. Castro then asked the Soviet Union to help defend them from the Americans, which they did. The Soviet Union put nuclear weapons in Cuba and aimed them at America. American President Kennedy demanded that they be removed or a new war would begin. This was known as the "Cuban Missile Crisis". The Soviet Union then removed the missiles. Cuba became a communist led country like the Soviet Union after this. The Soviet Union bought most of Cuba’s sugar for expensive prices. Cuba spent this money on health, education and the army. This made Cuba’s schools and hospitals some of the best in the world, and the army fought in Africa to support black Africans against the white South African army. Cuba also supported groups in South America fighting against the dictators of those countries. However, the Cuban government began to control most of life in Cuba under the communist system. Disagreeing with the Cuban government and Fidel Castro in public was not allowed. Some Cubans did not like this and tried to leave Cuba. Most Cubans who left went to America. Some Cubans who did not like the government and stayed were put in jail. Many groups from around the world protested against Cuba because of this, and demanded that Fidel Castro give up power. In 1991, the Soviet Union collapsed. This meant that Cuba, which had sold most of its products to the Soviet Union, had no money coming into the country. The Americans made the restrictions against contact with Cuba tighter. America said the restrictions on contact would continue unless Fidel Castro gave up power. Cuba became very poor in the 1990s. This became known in Cuba as “The Special Period”. Because of the disaster, Cuba changed to allow less control by the government, more discussion amongst the people, and private shops and businesses. Cuba also tried to get tourists to visit the island. In the 2000s, tourism to Cuba began to make money for the island again. Though Fidel Castro had remained in power, he had passed all duties to his brother Raul after an illness. Fidel Castro is 80 years old and was one of the longest serving heads of state. In 2008, Raúl Castro became the official president of Cuba.  
Cube	A cube is a block with all right angles and whose height, width and depth are all the same. A cube is one of the simplest mathematical shapes in space. Something that is shaped like a cube is sometimes referred to as "cubic". Relative 2-dimensional shape. The 2-dimensional shape (like a circle, square, triangle, etc) that a cube is made of is squares. The sides (faces) of a cube are squares. The edges are straight lines. The corners (vertices) are at right angles. A cube has 8 corners, 12 edges and 6 sides.  
Cost of living	Cost of Living is the amount of money it costs just to live in a certain place. It includes food, housing, etc. "Cost of Living" is also an episode from "Star Trek: The Next Generation". It has a "fantasy land" in it.  
December	December is the twelfth and last month of the year, with 31 days. From the Latin "decem" for "ten" (it was the tenth month of the year, before January and February were added). December begins on the same day of the week as September every year. December's flower is the Narcissus with its birthstone being the Turquoise. The meaning of the Turquoise is Prosperity. some of the holidays celebrated in December are,Christmas, New year's eve,  
Dublin	Dublin is the capital city of the Republic of Ireland. The Greater Dublin Area has a population of over 1.6 million people. Dublin is also the biggest city on the island of Ireland. Dublin was built by the Vikings and is built upon the river Liffey. Many famous writers lived in Dublin. Oscar Wilde and George Bernard Shaw were born in Dublin. James Joyce is probably Dublin's best known and most international writer.  
Dance	Dance is when people move their body to music. There are many kinds of dance, like jazz, ballet, tap, waltz, hip hop,bollywood,irish and slow dancing and many many others Dancing is done for fun. Dance is an art. Dance can be done by one person or two people or many people. Dancing is usually done while music is playing. Some people dance to express their feelings and emotions. Other people dance to feel better. Someone who makes a dance, is called a choreographer or "dance writer". History. The first dance school was opened in 1661 in Paris, France. Only men were accepted until 1681. After 1681, women were accepted too. Ballroom dances are forms of modern dance. Ballroom dances such as the waltz are done with two people. People who want to learn to dance can go to dance schools. Dance schools teach dance movements. It takes many years of practice to become an experienced and flexible dancer. Dance can be used as a form of communication between humans or humans and animals, it is a way of becoming an object or it is musical, mythological or a funny piece of work. Classical ballet (say 'bal-ay'), tap, folk, dance gymnastics, figure skating and synchronised swimming are types of dance. 'Swan Lake' has been shown to the public using ballet. To make (or choreograph) a dance, it is good to count the movement. Usually, two moves will last until the numbers '1, 2, 3, 4' or '1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8' or 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10.  
Dissolution of the monasteries	The Dissolution of the monasteries was an event that happened from 1536 to 1540, when English King Henry VIII took away things that the Roman Catholic church owned. This was also when Henry VIII made himself the new head of the Church of England.  
Deadline	A deadline is a time by which some task must be completed. Very often, it means a time limit that is set in place by an authority - for example, a teacher tells students that they must turn in their homework in by a certain time. This is so the teacher is able to report fairly to his or her principal that every student had the same chance to do the work. Deadlines may also be set by a time horizon that comes from something that is not a human authority, but part of nature. For example, by sunset one must do those tasks requiring daylight. However, a human must watch the sun and decide what light is strong enough to still be daylight, so time limits will still be involved even if one observes a horizon and sets a deadline oneself. A way to remember this is that a time horizon is like the physical horizon where sunset happens and a time limit is a thing people set up to deal with this. A deadline is a thing powerful people set up to ensure less powerful people comply with their way of doing things.  
Dutton's Speedwords	Dutton Speedwords is an auxiliary language. It can be used by people who speak any other language. Auxiliary means it is a helper for other languages. It is not a whole language by itself. It is also a shorthand writing system – this means you can use it to write quickly. The method was made up by Reginald John Garfield Dutton (1886-1970) in 1922. It was first published in 1935. It was called "International Symbolic Script". A year later, it was called "Speedwords". It was changed in 1946 and 1951. It has two uses; to be a language and to be used for writing quickly. Dutton hoped that this would mean more people would learn it because they could use it for two reasons. The books that Dutton wrote about Speedwords are not printed anymore. But Speedwords is now being used by more people because they find it is good for working online. For example, it makes it faster to type an email. Another way of writing quickly is Pitman's shorthand. This uses special symbols instead of letters. Speedwords uses Roman letters. This makes it easier to learn. It also means it can be typed using a normal keyboard. Each word means only one thing. This means you do not need to use different forms of the same word. The words used in Speedwords are the same as the words used in many other languages. The words are like short versions of the writer's own language.  
Division	Division is an arithmetic operation used to find out how many times a number will go into another number. For example, two goes into nine, four and a half times. This can also be written down as 9 ÷ 2 = 4.5, or formula_1 or spoken verbally as "nine over two is four and a half." The numbers in the operation have special names: Dividend ÷ divisor = quotient. Other meanings. In a "business organization", a division is a unique group of people who are responsible for a particular product or function. In "military doctrine", a division is a unique cohesive unit. In the United States a division totals about 10,000 to 12,000 soldiers or marines.  
Devil	In some religions, a devil is a bad spirit that tries to create problems for people. Some people also use the words "the Devil" or "Satan" for the most powerful devil. The word "devil" comes from the Greek word "diabolos" which means "someone who tells lies to hurt you". ("Diabolos" is translated to the English word "slanderer.") The Christian New Testament uses "diabolos" as a title for Satan, and so "The Devil" became another name for Satan in English. In the Old Testament, there is the serpent and the shaitan, who may be two different characters. "Shaitan" in Hebrew means "adversary" - an enemy or opponent.  
Diarrhea	Diarrhea (say "dy-a-re-ya"), also spelled diarrhoea, is feces that are runny or liquid. In a baby it is the most common symptom of malnutrition. This means not eating enough, or well enough. There are many other diseases that cause it. Most are temporary and related to diet - the food you eat. Food safety and hand washing can cut the risk of getting diarrhea. Some causes other than disease are stress and drinking too much alcohol. In developing nations, malnutrition is a common cause of child death. Diarrhea is often treated with aspirin or glucose - these reduce pain and may stop some symptoms for a while. However, if the root cause is malnutrition, it will not save the child's life. Spending money on rehydrating salts, clean water, and more food is wiser, as the first step. The opposite of diarrhea, firm feces are a sign of good digestive health. Many people adopt vegetarian diets with high dietary fibre to prevent diarrhea and other digestive problems.  
Dimension	A dimension is a measure of the size of something. For example, the three dimensions that give the size of an object in the world are Dimensions can be used to measure position too. The distance to a position from a starting place can be measured in the length, width and height directions. These distances are a measure of the position. Sometimes a fourth dimension, time, is used to show the position of an event in time and space. Other Dimensions. In modern science, people use other dimensions. Dimensions like temperature and weight can be used to show the position of something in less simple spaces. Dimensions in mathematics. Mathematicians also use dimensions. In mathematics, dimensions are more general. Dimensions in mathematics might not measure things in the world. The rules for doing arithmetic with dimensions in mathematics might be different than usual arithmetic rules. Dimensions and vectors. Vectors are used to show distances and directions. Vectors are often used in engineering and science, and sometimes in mathematics. A vector is a list of numbers. There is one number for each dimension. There are arithmetic rules for vectors.  
Distance	Distance is how far one thing is from another thing. Distance is a measure of the space between two things. Displacement. Distance is different from displacement. Displacement is the difference between a starting point and a finishing point. Example of Displacement. A and B are 1 metre apart. Tom walks from A to B. Then Tom walks from B back to A. The distance Tom walked is 2 metres. Tom's displacement is 0 metres, because Tom started at A and finished at A.  
Dictionary	A dictionary is a book which explains the meanings of words. The words are arranged in alphabetical order so that they can be found quickly. The word “dictionary” comes from the Latin “diction” (“word”). There are several types of dictionaries: dictionaries which explain words and how they are used, dictionaries which translate words from one language to another, dictionaries of biography which tell about famous people, technical dictionaries which explain the meanings of technical words or words connected to a particular subject (sometimes called a thesaurus). Some of these come close to being an encyclopedia, but an encyclopedia gives a lot of extra information about things (knowledge) and does not explain the use of the language. Dictionaries which explain the meaning of words. Dictionaries which explain what words mean will give a clear “definition” of the word (e.g. "hippopotamus": a hoofed mammal with thick skin, large mouth and short legs that lives in rivers and lakes of Africa.) Good dictionaries will also give more information about the word. It will explain how it is pronounced. Usually the International Phonetic Alphabet is used for this. It will explain how the word is used. This is not a problem for a word like “hippopotamus”, but a word like “put” has so many different meanings that a large dictionary may have a whole page or more to explain how it can be used. It will also explain what language the word comes from (e.g. Greek “hippos” horse and “potamus” river). A dictionary may also give the form of the word in different tenses, plural form etc. Dictionaries which translate into foreign languages. There are also dictionaries which translate words into foreign languages. Very often one volume (one book) will translate both ways, so half the book will be translating from English to Dutch and the other half from Dutch to English. When using a dictionary to find out how to say something in another language one has to be careful to choose the right word. A word like “right” has two basic meanings in English: 1) “correct”, and 2) the opposite of “left”. Other languages are not like English: they will have different words for these different meanings. A word like “put” has many meanings. A good dictionary will have a large list of these meanings to help people find the word they want. In many languages, for example, the word “put” will be different according to whether something is being put onto something (e.g. a table) or into something (e.g. a cupboard). Updating dictionaries. Dictionaries need to be updated frequently because of the way language changes. New words are often brought into a language (e.g. lots of computer terms) or words change their meanings (e.g. “gay” or “cool”). The most famous English Dictionary is the Oxford English Dictionary (or OED). Words are always being added to the OED, they are never taken out even if they are obsolete (not used any more). The OED can be accessed online (with a subscription).  
Definition	A definition is an exact word or phrase of the meaning, nature, or limits of something. A definition usually answers the question "what". "Defining" means giving a definition. Other words with this meaning are "description" and "explanation". In mathematics, a definition is an exact way of saying what something is. It might not be the easiest way to say what it is, but it is used because it is exact. It can be used in a mathematical proof about the thing.  
Denmark	Denmark is a country in northern Europe. 5,400,000 people live there. There are many islands, but there are no mountains. Denmark is on the North Sea. Denmark is a kingdom. The capital of Denmark is Copenhagen. In geography, "Denmark" is the land in northern Europe, where the Danes live. In the political sense, "Denmark" also includes the Faroe Islands in the Atlantic Ocean, and Greenland in North America. All three parts of the country have different languages and culture. In 2006 and 2007, surveys ranked Denmark as "the happiest place in the world," based on standards of health, welfare, and education. Geography. Denmark is the smallest of the Scandinavian countries. The neighbours are Germany (to the south), Sweden (to the east), Norway (to the north) and the United Kingdom (to the west). The country is surrounded by the sea except for Jutland, the largest part of Denmark. It is connected to Germany by land. To the south-east there is the Baltic Sea, to the west the North Sea, to the north the Skagerrak and to the north-east the Kattegat. The western part of Denmark is the peninsula of Jutland (pronounced "yut-land"), bordering Germany. This is the only part of Denmark that is not an island. The rest of Denmark includes 76 islands people live on, and many tiny islands. To the east is the island of Bornholm in the Baltic Sea, the only place in Denmark where the bedrock can be seen. The country is quite flat. There are many small hills, lakes, creeks, forests and farmland. And nobody lives more than 60 km from the coast. Climate. The weather in Denmark is quite windy and rainy. In the winter, it does not get very cold; in most years, there are only a few weeks of snow. Every ten years or so, the sea around the islands freezes over, but in most winters, it does not. The climate and topography are not good for winter sports. Most summers are not very hot. People always dress to be ready for rain or wind. There are also very sunny times, but nobody can know ahead of time when these will be. The best time of the year for outdoor activities is the months of May and June until midsummer. People. The biggest part (91%) of Denmark's population of just under 5.5 million is of Danish descent. Of the rest 8.9% who are immigrants or descendent from recent immigrants, many come from South Asia or the Middle East. There are also small groups of Inuit from Greenland and Faroese. Language. The Danes speak Danish. Most Danes speak English, too. Many also speak German. On the Faroe Islands, Faroese is spoken, and people living in Greenland speak Inuit. In the southern part of Jutland, a German minority speaks German. The Danish language is much like Norwegian and Swedish. Regions and municipalities. Denmark is divided into five regions (Danish: "regioner", singular: "region"). The regions are "Hovedstaden", "Midtjylland", "Nordjylland", "Sjælland", "Syddanmark" and a total of 98 municipalities (Danish: "kommuner"). Traffic. Because of the many islands, Denmark is a country of bridges. The main parts of the country, and most of the bigger islands, are connected by roads and railroads. One of the world's longest bridges connects the eastern and the western parts of the country, and there is a large bridge to Sweden also. There is still no bridge across the Baltic Sea to Germany, but it will most likely be built in a few years. The bridge to Sweden was expensive, took a long time to build, and required much planning by engineers. There are still many islands with no bridges to the mainland. People have to go by boat or airplane to reach these islands. Many islands will never be reached by bridges, because they are too small or too far away. If the island has too few people, bridges are often not built because it is expensive to build. Somebody has to pay for it, nothing is free. Culture. The people of Denmark have always depended on the sea. In earlier days, people could not travel anywhere unless they went by boat. Many Danes were fishermen or merchants. Even today, many Danes spend much time near or at the sea. Farming has always been one of the main occupations. Because of the climate and the soil, Denmark is a good place for agriculture. Export of food to the neighbouring countries is one of the most important sources of income for the country. Danish hams and cookies are exported throughout the world. Many Danes have become famous around the world, such as the scientist Ole Rømer, who discovered the speed of light, the philosopher Søren Kierkegaard, the author Hans Christian Andersen, the physicist Niels Bohr, and Lars Ulrich from Metallica. Danish food. The cuisine of Denmark is like the other Nordic countries (Finland, Norway, Iceland, and Sweden), as well as that of northern Germany, consists mainly pork meat and fish. Traditional Danish food includes "frikadeller" (fried meatballs, often served with potatoes and various sorts of gravy). Fish is also widely eaten, especially on the west coast of Jutland. Holidays. Christmas is the main feast of the year. Christmas is celebrated on the eve, December 24. In midwinter, a fast is celebrated. Children are dressed up, and go from house to house begging for candy. A barrel is smashed with clubs, and the person who hits the last stick is appointed king or queen of cats. Midsummer is celebrated with a huge bonfire in the evening of June 23. Most Danes have a three week summer holiday in July og August. Sports. The most popular sport in Denmark is football (soccer). Sailing and other water sports are also very popular, the same are sports indoor like badminton, handball and many others. King and Queen. Denmark does not currently have a King. The Queen is Margrethe II. Her husband is called a prince because he is the son-in-law, not the son, of the previous King. The royal couple have two children. In 2008 Prince Joachim have married for the second time. His new wife is from France and is called Marie.  
Death	These are just some of the ways in which life forms die. Life forms which have died are normally described as being dead. Human death is very carefully tracked in case of a killing or something (like a disease) that may continue to kill other humans. Death is usually followed by rituals like the funeral, which have been developed by a religion or the state. When people talk about things or events that lead to the death of an organism, those things or events are usually described as being deadly, or fatal. In the case of diseases, "terminal" is also used quite often. There are many euphemisms for dying. A few examples are, "to pass away", "to go to a better place", and "to kick the bucket." In ordinary life, death is when the heart stops beating and the lungs stop breathing for more than several minutes. There are special times in which people recover even though the heart has stopped for 30 minutes, such as near-drowning in very cold water. If machines are used to help the heart and lungs work, then the moment of death is more difficult to know.  
Diesel-electric	A diesel-electric engine burns diesel or biodiesel fuel. However, rather than use this energy directly to run gears, it charges a battery which more efficiently turns wheels. Some designs also store braking energy in a flywheel, which can also charge a battery. However, these make the engine even more complex, and add weight to the vehicle, so are more appropriate for city driving where service stations are always available and there is much stop and go driving. Because they do not require any change or investment in stations nor much in vehicle design, diesel-electric vehicles are believed to be the most likely replacement for today's internal combustion engine. When properly tuned, they have low emissions and they use only about one-third of the fossil fuel of most gasoline engines powering similar vehicles. Honda and Toyota are presently delivering consumer priced diesel-electric cars. By contrast, hydrogen infrastructure is thought to be decades off, and is not fully implemented even in Iceland where there is abundant free geothermal electricity. Many activists feel that promoting hydrogen is a stall, a way to avoid forcing the shift to diesel-electric vehicles in the nearer term.  
Embassy	A foreign embassy is the official office of one country in the capital of another country. It is where the ambassador (representative) of the home country works and it is where most of the communication (talk) between the two governments happens. Sometimes if a person lost his passport he/she can go to their own embassy.  
Europe	Europe is a continent, the western part of Eurasia. It is separated from Asia by a traditional eastern boundary that includes the Ural Mountains in Russia and the Bosporus in Turkey, and from Africa by the Mediterranean Sea. The Atlantic Ocean is to the west of Europe. There are about 50 countries in Europe. The European Union is made up of some of the countries in Europe. Origin of Name. Europe is named after a person in Greek mythology called Europa. She was said to have been abducted to Crete by Zeus. The name later was used for Greece. Then as the rest of the area we call Europe started to have cities and empires the whole of the area West of the Urals got called this. Climate. In Europe there is different climate in different places like in the very north like Finland it stays snow in winter for 5-6 months and is -30 degrees celcius, however for instance in Spain it is warmer and hardly snows,except mountains. European Union. At this time, much of the continent shares some rulership in a body that is above any country, called the European Union.  
Encyclopedia	An encyclopedia (or "encyclopædia", "cyclopædia") is a collection (usually a book) of information about things humans know. Word origin. The word "encyclopedia" is Latin and comes from Greek. The words "εγκύκλιος παιδεία", "enkyklios paideia" mean "in a circle of teaching". It is from "εγκύκλιος", "in a circle" from "κύκλος" "circle" and "παιδεία", meaning "teaching". The word "εγκύκλιος" can also mean "general": perhaps the people who made the Latin name "encyclopedia" did not understand the Greek word well. Perhaps the name should mean "general teaching". In Canada and the UK, and some other countries affected by the British Empire, encyclopedia is spelt mostly as "encyclopædia". History. People have made encyclopedias for hundreds of years, but the name "encyclopedia" is from the 16th century. Types of encyclopedias. There are different types of encyclopedia. Some are general and have pages on lots of topics. The English language "Encyclopædia Britannica" and German "Brockhaus" are general encyclopedias. Some are about specific topics. For example, there are encyclopedias of medicine or philosophy. There are also some encyclopedias that have lots of topics with one point of view or one cultural bias. The "Great Soviet Encyclopedia" is one of these. Many dictionaries have a different sort of information as encyclopedias. Examples are the Dictionary of National Biography, the Dictionary of American Naval Fighting Ships, and Black's Law Dictionary. There are two main ways of organizing encyclopedias: from A to Z (the alphabetical way) or by categories. Most encyclopedias go from A to Z. There are also printed encyclopedias, and encyclopedias in the computer, such as Wikipedia, the largest computer encyclopedia. Encyclopedias. The largest encyclopedia is Wikipedia in English, which has more than 2 million articles now. The second largest, is the Encyclopaedia Britannica, which is the largest one that is printed. Stacy Schiff, a writer, says that Wikipedia is not as good as other encyclopedias because anyone can change it, so some people may write things that are wrong. Also, the way that Wikipedia works means that there is likely to be bias. On the other hand, Tyler Cowen, an Economist, says that other non-fiction writing may also have the same problems.  
Earth science	Earth science is a term that refers to sciences related to the planet Earth. The four main earth sciences are geography, geology, geophysics and geodesy. Earth sciences use other sciences, including physics, chemistry, biology, chronology and mathematics, to build a quantitative understanding of the Earth.  
Earth	orbit: 149,600,000 km (1.00 AU) from Sun Earth is the third planet from the Sun. It is one of the four "terrestrial" planets in the Solar System meaning it has a mostly solid surface. The other three are Mercury, Venus and Mars. It is often called "The Earth", "Planet Earth", "the World" "Terra", and "home". Earth is home to millions of species of plants and animals, including humans. Earth is the only place in the universe where life is known to exist. Science shows that the Earth formed around 4.5 billion years ago. The things that live on Earth have completely changed its air or atmosphere. This is called a biosphere. About 71% of Earth's surface is covered in salt water oceans. Earth is the only place in the universe where liquid water is known to exist. The other 29% is made of rocky land in the shape of continents and islands. Earth interacts with other objects in the Solar System, specifically the Sun and the Moon.The Earth orbits or goes around the Sun roughly once every 365.25 days. One spin is called a "day" and one orbit around the Sun is called a year. This is why we have 365 days in year. Earth has only one moon, known as the Moon. History. Scientists think that the Earth and the other planets formed about 4.5 billion years ago. They were made of the leftover gas from the nebula that made the Sun. Some scientists think that the Moon might have been made when a small planet, sometimes called "Theia", crashed into Earth and bit broke off - making the Moon. Condensing water vapour or steam, comets and asteroids hiting the Earth made the oceans. Within a billion years the first life evolved. Some life developed photosynthesis which lets plants make food from the Sun's light. This released a lot of oxygen into the atmosphere or air, making the Earth's surface suitable for life. This oxygen also formed the ozone layer which protects the Earth from bad ultraviolet radiation from the Sun. This protection made it possible for things to move from the deep ocean to the surface. This long ago almost all land was in one place, called a "supercontinent". The earliest known supercontinent was called "Rodina". Scientists think that soon after this there was a time when the Earth was almsot entirely covered by glaciers. This is called "Snowball Earth" What it is made of. Earth is terrestrial planet. This means it is made up of solid rock unlike a gas giant such as Jupiter. It is the largest out of the four terrestrial planets in mass and diameter. Earth also has the strongest gravitational and magnetic field. Shape. The Earth's shape is an oblate spheroid. This means it is basically a sphere but it bulges around the middle. The average width of the Earth is approx. 40,000 kilometres (40,030.229 kilometres) divided by pi. This is because originally one metre was defined as one 10,000,000th of the distance from the North pole to the equator, through Paris, France. The highest point on Earth is the peak of Mount Everest at 8,848 m above sea level. The lowest natural point is the bottom of the Mariana Trench at 10,911 metres below sea level. Becuase of the bulge at the middle or the equator, the farthest point from the Earth's centre is the top of Mount Chimborazo in Ecuador Internal Structure. Inside the Earth is similar to the other terrestrial planets. It has an outer, solid rock layer called the crust. Everything that lives on Earth is on top of the crust. Underneath that is a layer of thick, liquid rock called the mantle. Under that is a thin liquid layer called the outer core and then the solid iron inner core. The thickness of the crust changes. On land the average is between 30-50 kilometres thick. Under the oceans in some places it is only 6 kilometres thick. The inside of the Earth is very hot, the outer core may be as much as 7000 degrees. Tectonic Plates. According to plate tectonics the Earth's crust basically "floats" on the thick liquid rock of the mantle below. The crust is split up into parts called "plates". These plates interact as they move about causing earthquakes and creating volcanoes and mountain ranges. The place where plates meet are called plate boundaries. There are three types of plate boundary: "constructive", "destructive" and "transform". Surface. The Earth changes greatly from place to place. Over 70% of the Earth surface is covered by water. The underwater surface has many of the same features as the above sea with volcanos, mountains and trenches or canyons. The 30% not covered by water is mostly forests, deserts, plains, mountains and plateaus. Human civilisation has led to increasing urbanisation - the growth of cities. Hydrosphere. All the water on Earth, on land or in the atmosphere, is part of the "hydrosphere". No other planet humans know of has a hydrosphere. About 97.5% of all water is salt water. About half the fresh water is currently ice. The oceans absorb or soak up carbon dioxide, a gas that adds to the greenhouse effect and global warming. Atmosphere. A planet's atmosphere is a layer of different gases surrounding it. It is kept there by gravity. The Earth's atmosphere is made of roughly 78% nitrogen, 21% oxygen and small amounts of other gases. This mixture is often called "air". Farther up there is a layer of ozone gas called the "Ozone layer". Ozone absorbs ultraviolet radiation from the Sun. Ultraviolet radiation is dangerous to people, so without the Ozone layer life wouldn't be possible. The atmosphere also protects the earth from crashes with meteors and small asteroids. This is because they burn up due to all the friction as they fly through it. It also helps to keep Earth warm. Some gases including carbon dioxide and methane act like a blanket around the Earth, they trap heat under them, keeping the Earth warm. This is called the "greenhouse effect" When humans build factories and power plants to make electricity we burn things. When we burn things it lets out a lot of carbon dioxide. This carbon dioxide goes up into the atmosphere and traps more heat. This is called "global warming". It might be very dangerous for life on Earth if this continues. Weather, Climate and the water Cycle. Hot air rises. As it rises it gets colder again and falls. This is called "convection currents" When hot air meets cold air different weather effects happen. "Convection currents" are the cause of almost all weather on Earth. When it gets hot on the surface water evaporates and becomes steam or water vapour. This hot water vapour rises. As it rises it gets colder. When gets cold enough it turns back into water again. This causes the clouds and rain. It is called the water cycle. Orbit and Rotation. The Earth takes about 24 hours to rotate or spin around once. This is called a day. Earth takes roughly 365 days to go around the Sun. This is called a year. The Earth is, on average, 150 million miles away from the Sun, and moving at a speed of 30 kilometers a second or 108,000 miles an hour. The Moon orbits the Earth at an average distance of 250,000 miles. It is tidally locked to Earth, which means it always has the same side facing the Earth. It takes roughly one month to complete one orbit. Only six people in history have ever seen the other side of the Moon. The Earth is part of the Solar System and orbits the sun along with thousands of small objects and eight planets. The Sun and therefore the Solar System are currently traveling through the Orion Arm of the Milky Way Galaxy and will be for the next 10,000 years or so.  
Et cetera	Et cetera means "and the rest" in Latin. It is often used in English to continue a list that is longer than what can be normally written. People most often write "et cetera" as etc. Very rarely, it is also written "&c" because the ampersand, or the "&", is the same as "et". It is also the symbol for "and". Some people write it as "ect", but that is wrong.  
Experiment	An experiment is a test of an idea invented by someone, usually a scientist. An experiment is used to test a theory--to see how well the real world matches the theory. Experiments have been used for many years to help people understand the world around them. One important observation about experiments is that they can tell us if a theory is false. They cannot tell us if a theory is true. For example, if we invent a theory that says "All houses are made of wood", we cannot say that it is true because all the houses we have seen are made of wood. But, if we find a house that "is not" made of wood, we know that our theory is false. Benjamin Franklin did a well known experiment by flying a kite during a thunderstorm. He did the experiment to see if lightning was made of electricity. Experiments are not the same as faith (belief) or other ways to find truth because experiments must have proof. They begin by testing falsehood to find out truth. "The universe does not tell us when we are right, only when we are wrong." - Karl Popper  
Ethics	Ideas about ethics. Some philosophers call ethics the "science of morality". "Morality" is what someone thinks or feels is good or bad. There are many different moralities, but they share some things. For example most people think that murder (killing somebody) is wrong. Some philosophers hope to find more things that moralities share. They think that ethics should use the scientific method to study things that people think are good or bad. Other philosophers think that ethics is separate from morality. They do not think that ethics can be studied using the scientific method and they think it is closer to metaphysics. Some of them think like platonists about what is good and bad. Other philosophers believe that ethics is subjective. This means that they think that what is right for me is whatever I say is right. This means that ethics is just a person's own morality. These philosophers do not think that ethics is the same for all people. What is ethics used for? Understanding ethics can help people decide what to do when they have choices. Many philosophers think that doing anything or making any choice is a part of ethics. Along with Aesthetics ethics forms part of axiology the philosophy of what people like.  
E Prime	E Prime (it means English Prime) is a way of speaking English without using the verb "to be" in any way ("be, is, am, are, was, were, been, and being"). Instead, an E Prime speaker or writer uses different verbs like "to become," "to remain," and "to equal" or they might choose to rearrange the sentence to show that the "thing" does not actually "act". For example, in E Prime, a writer would change the statement "Mistakes were made" to "Joe made mistakes." This change in wording reveals an actor (Joe) where the previous form concealed the actor. Users of E Prime would consider the changed sentence more accurate. What E Prime is. D. David Bourland, Jr. first suggested E Prime in 1965. Bourland had studied the discipline (way of thinking) of General Semantics. The main idea of General Semantics is that people can only know what they observe and experience when they see, hear, touch, taste, smell, think, and feel, and furthermore, that what they observe and experience can affect how they observe and experience in the future. Because each person has different experiences throughout their lives, they interpret their experiences differently. 1. That their experience of "softness" involves both the outside "object" called "cat" and the eyes, hands, brain and nervous system of the observer. 2. That someone else might experience different aspects of the cat. 3. That they themselves might experience something different at a different time or in different circumstances. (The cat might scratch them, or be wet or matted with dirt.) What E Prime is not. E Prime and General Semantics are not different languages or forms of English. Instead, they provide different ways of thinking and talking about the world. Although languages like Arabic, Turkish, and Cantonese do not have a separate verb for "to be," they do have the idea of "being." For example, an English speaker might say "This apple is red." An Arabic speaker might say "This apple red." Most languages can be used to express the idea of a red apple. An E Prime user chooses to only say that "This apple looks red to me" to remind themselves that "seeing red" involves both the apple and the eye and brain of the person looking at the apple. Many teachers of English encourage students to use verbs other than "to be." To them, using other, more active verbs makes writing clearer and more interesting. These teachers want to improve their students' writing and may not agree with the ideas of General Semantics or E Prime.  
Einstein on the Beach	"Einstein on the Beach" is an opera written by the minimalist composer Philip Glass and theater director and designer Robert Wilson. It was first acted for an audience in Avignon, France in 1976. It is a single act opera, approximately five hours long with no intermission. Given the minimalist (repetitive) nature of the music, audience members are free to enter and leave the opera as they wish.  
Ethnic group	An ethnic group is a group of people who are considered to be the same in some way. They may all have the same ancestors, speak the same language, or have the same religion. Sometimes almost all of the people in one country are of the same ethnic group, but not always. Often one country may have several different ethnic groups, or the people of one ethnic group may live in several different countries.  
Ebola	Ebola, pronounced E- Bo-la, is a "hemorrhagic fever" virus. (Hemorrhagic means causes very heavy bleeding.) It is a very deadly disease. 50-90% of people who get Ebola die. People who get infected with Ebola virus get the disease "Ebola hemorrhagic fever". How people get Ebola. In people, "transmission" (giving the virus to someone) happens because of touching fluids with the virus. People with Ebola hemorrhagic (bleeding) fever bleed very much. They have blood in diarrhea and vomit. They bleed from their noses, mouths, and genitals. These liquids are very infectious (they can make other people get the virus.) Symptoms of Ebola. When people get Ebola the first symptoms look like some other diseases. People get fever, feel very tired, have headache (pain in the head), pain in the stomach, pain in joints, and pain in the throat. Sometimes people think they have other diseases like malaria or typhoid fever. Later, people get much more sick. They have very bad bleeding. They get shock: low blood pressure, fast pulse (heart rate), and low blood circulation to the body. This causes organs to get very sick. The organs stop working. This is called "organ failure". Then, even if they make it to a hospital, "most" die. Ebola cannot be caught through the air. Treatment of Ebola. There is no special treatment for Ebola hemorrhagic fever. But if people get care from doctors and nurses more live. This is called supportive care. Supportive care can be fluids and blood given in people's veins. It can be medicines to make their blood pressure and blood circulation better. When people in a place get Ebola, it is called an "outbreak". If doctors see an outbreak is happening, they try to stop it. They stop it by isolating people with infection. This means keeping the blood and fluids from people with Ebola from touching other people. Then other people do not get the virus. When an outbreak happens, many people come to try and help stop it. The World Health Organization is the most important group that tries to stop Ebola outbreaks. Scientists are trying to find a vaccine for Ebola.  
Ecology	Ecology is the science that studies the interactions of organisms with their environment and with one another. It comes from the Greek words "oikos" (habitat) and "logos" (study). It deals with energy relationships and tracing them to our sun, the source of energy used in photosynthesis. Ecology, biology and other Life Sciences overlap with zoology and geography, which describe the things that ecology tries to predict, and energy economics which describes mostly human food chains and trophic levels. Terrestrial ecoregion and climate change research are two areas where ecologists (people studying ecology) now focus. Ecology in politics. Ecology starts many powerful philosophical and political movements - including the conservation movement, wellness movement, environmental movement, and ecology movement we know today. When these are combined with peace movements and the Six Principles, they are called green movements. In general, these put ecosystem health first on a list of human moral and political priorities, as the way to achieve better human health and social harmony, and better economics. People with these beliefs are called political ecologists. Some have organized into the Green Parties, but there are actually political ecologists in most political parties. They very often use arguments from ecology to advance policy, especially forest policy and energy policy. Also, ecology means that it is the branch of biology dealing with the relations and interactions between organisms and their environment, including other organisms. Ecology includes economics. Ecological economics and human development theory try to separate the economic questions from others, but it is difficult. Many people think economics is just part of ecology now, and that economics that ignores it is wrong. "Natural capital" is an example of one theory combining both. Ecology mirrors anthropology. Sometimes ecology is compared to anthropology, because both use a lot of methods to study one thing we cannot live without. Anthropology is about how our bodies and minds are affected by our environment, while ecology is about how our environment is affected by our bodies and minds. There is even a type of anthropology called ecological anthropology, which studies how people interact with the environment. Antoine de Saint-Exupery stated: "The earth teaches us more about ourselves than all the books. Because it resists us. Man discovers himself when he measures himself against the obstacle."  
Economics	Economics is the study of how people make choices to satisfy their wants. There are three main ideas that are useful for understanding economics. Three ideas. Economics is a science that studies how people try to make use of the limited resources in the world to satisfy their wants. People's resources include their money, their free time, and their ability to work and make money. People have many wants for goods, such as the want for food, for houses to live in, and a new car to drive. However, there is only a limited amount of resources and goods available, which is called scarcity. For example, a person only has a limited amount of money and a limited amount of free time. This means that they have to make choices about how to spend these scarce resources on the different goods that they want. The advantage, when people work together. When people work together, there is an advantage for everybody. People concentrate on things they have very good skills off and produce especially theese goods (services). This principle can be used by countries and is an important argument for the free trade between economics. The subjects and objects in economics. The subjects of economic are households, business companies, the state and foreign countries. Households offer their production factors to the companies. This includes work, ground, capital (machines, buildings) and information. They get income whereof they buy and consume goods. Business companies produce and sell goods and buy production factors from the households and other companies. The state is divided in institutions and organisations. For example the United States of America consists of 50 states, where every state has his own area of responsibility. The state distributes the earnings from the business companies and households. These payments are called transfer payments. Public goods like streets or university education should be available for everyone. The last subject are foreign countries this includes all households, business companies und state institutions, which aren´t based in the mother land. They demand and supply goods from abroad. The objects in the economic are consumer goods, capital goods and factors of production. Consumer goods are classified in usage goods for example toilet paper, in purpose goods for example a car and in services for example a cleaning lady. Capital goods are goods, which are necessary for producing other goods. Examples for these are buildings, equipment and machines. Factors of production are work, ground, capital, information and environment. History. Economists are strongly influenced by their times, for example, Karl Marx lived in a time where workers' conditions were very poor. John Maynard Keynes lived through the Great Depression of the 1930s. Today's economists can look back and understand why they made their judgements, and try to make better ones. Branches of economics. The two main branches of economics are microeconomics and macroeconomics. Microeconomics looks at the behavior of individuals, homes, businesses or even groups of these. Microeconomics looks at prices of things and of services. It wants to help people decide how to divide society's resources. To do this, microeconomics wants to understand how decisions are made and how these small decisions affect bigger things. Macroeconomics looks at all the economy. It tries to explain the causes of numbers like national income, employment rates, and inflation. Connecting the two branches has been important and the general idea since the early 1980s. A good macroeconomic theory is based on microeconomics, meaning one can explain macroeconomic events using microeconomics for individuals.  
Chemical element	A chemical element is a substance that cannot be divided into smaller chemical parts. The smallest particle of such an element is an atom. Atoms are made up of protons, neutrons, and electrons. A pure element contains only one kind of atom. The number of protons in the atoms of an element is known as that element's atomic number. For example, all atoms with 6 protons in their nuclei are of the chemical element carbon, and all atoms with 92 protons in their nuclei are of the element uranium. 117 different chemical elements are known to modern chemistry. 90 of these elements can be found in nature, and the others can only be made in laboratories. The first man-made element was Technetium in 1937. All man-made elements are radioactive and unstable. Chemical elements are commonly arranged in the periodic table. Atoms of the same element, whose nuclei contain a different number of neutrons, are said to be different isotopes of the element. Chemical elements are also given a unique "chemical symbol". Chemical symbols of elements come from their English or Latin names (For example, carbon has the chemical symbol 'C', and sodium has chemical symbol 'Na', after the Latin "natrium"). Elements can combine (react) to form pure compounds (such as water, salts, oxides, and organic compounds). In many cases, these compounds have a fixed composition and their own structure and properties. Some elements, particularly metal elements mix together in any proportion to form new structures. Such new structures are not compounds. They are called mixtures. Classification. Elements can be classified based on physical states. At room temperature and pressure, most elements are solids, only 11 are gases and 2 are liquids. Elements can also be classified into metals and non-metals. There are many more metals than non-metals. However, a few elements have properties in between those of metals and non-metals. These elements are called semi-metals (or metalloids).  
Egypt	Egypt is a country in northeast Africa. Its capital city is Cairo. Egypt is famous for its very old monuments, such as the Pyramids and the Sphinx. Egypt has been an independent country since 1922. It is a member of the United Nations and the Arab League. It was a republic from 1952 after the revolution of 1952 by the leader Gamal Abd Alnaasar Egypt is a large country, but a large portion of it is desert. Most people live in areas around the coast of the Mediterranean Sea and along the Nile River. This includes the cities of Alexandria, Aswan, and Port Said. Not many people live in the desert. Today, Egypt has about 70 million people. Egypt is divided into 27 areas, called Governorates of Egypt. The Egyptian Parliament sits in Cairo and makes laws for the whole country. Today, the President is Hosni Mubarak. Today, the people of Egypt are mostly Sunni Muslims. There are still some Christians in Egypt today. Many of these belong to the Coptic Orthodox Church of Alexandria. Many famous people are from Egypt. Some of these include Omar Sharif, who was an international actor, Boutros Boutros-Ghali, who was the first person from Africa to lead the United Nations, and four Nobel Prize winners: Anwar Sadat, who won the Nobel Peace Prize in 1978, Naguib Mahfouz, who won the Nobel Prize in Literature in 1988, Ahmed Zewail, who won the Nobel Prize in Chemistry in 1999, and Mohamed ElBaradei, who won the Nobel Peace Prize in 2005. Egypt's climate is very extreme. It is either very cold or very hot, depending on the time.  
Everything2	Everything2 or E2 is a website. It lets people make pages about many different things, and some people use it as a diary. E2 users create pages called "nodes" and add stuff in "writeups". Only logged-in users can create writeups. Only the person who created the writeup or someone who the website owners (called "gods") choose can edit the writeup. On the other hand, on Wikipedia, anyone can edit pages, but on Everything2 only those who can edit the writeup can edit pages. Everything2 does not require a neutral point of view like Wikipedia does. So, it is possible to have more than one article (writeups) under the same title (node), each by different authors, and presenting different points of view.  
Edit	To edit a document means to change the order of words or pictures, or add new words or pictures, usually so that the edited product better represents what the editor, the person doing the editing, meant to show.  
Ecological yield	Ecological yield is the harvestable growth of an ecosystem. It is most commonly measured in forestry - in fact sustainable forestry is defined as that which does not harvest more wood in a year than has grown in that year, within a given patch of forest. However, the concept is also applicable to water, and soil, and any other aspect of an ecosystem which can be both harvested and renewed - the so-called renewable resources. The carrying capacity of an ecosystem is reduced over time if more than the amount which is "renewed" (refreshed or regrown or rebuilt). Nature's services analysis calculates the global yield of the Earth's biosphere to humans as a whole. This is said to be greater in size than the entire human economy. However, it is more than just yield, but also the natural processes that increase biodiversity and conserve habitat which result in the total value of these services. "Yield" of ecological commodities like wood or water, useful to humans, is only a part of it. Very often an ecological yield in one place offsets an ecological load in another. Greenhouse gas released in one place, for instance, is fairly evenly distributed in the atmosphere, and so greenhouse gas control can be achieved by creating a carbon sink literally anywhere else. Ecocide is thought by some green economists to be accelerated by debt instruments which demand a yield (economics) greater than the ecological capacity to renew. This is a major question in monetary reform.  
Experience economy	The experience economy is the intangible service economy that customers experience directly. In moral purchasing, Natural Capitalism and other theories of how consumers make choices, they are actually choosing experiences or comprehensive outcomes of their choices. For instance to buy local is to choose a whole experience of local suppliers, such as in a farmers market or Slow Food, that is quite different than the experience associated with factory food or fast food.  
Execution	Execution is where state authorities kill someone for having committed an extremely serious crime, usually treason or special-circumstance murder. In most countries where the death penalty is still provided for by law, using it is an option available to the sentencing judge: even if the jury or judicial panel recommends the death penalty, the presiding judge still has the option to lock the convicted person in a prison for the rest of their life. Beheading. Centries ago, many countries used beheading as an execution for important people, including England. In England, some kings and queens have been beheaded. There, the prisoner would be led up the scaffold and usually say a speech. Then, he/she would be blindfolded and put his/her neck onto a block. Then, the executioner would lift up his axe and swing it down onto the victim's neck. If the executioner was skilled and the axe was sharp, then the axe would usually cut through the bone and organs of the victim in one stroke. But if the executioner was inexperienced, then it may take many strokes before the head would be cut off.  
Flesch Reading Ease	The Flesch Reading Ease measures textual difficulty, which indicates how easy a text is to read. How it works. 100: Very easy to read. Average sentence length is 12 words or fewer. No words of more than two syllables. 65: Plain English. Average sentence length is 15 to 20 words. Average word has two syllables. 30: Pretty difficult to read. Sentences will have mostly 25 words. Two syllables usually. 0: Extremely difficult to read. Average sentence length is 37 words. Average word has more than two syllables. The higher the rating, the easier the text is to understand. By the very nature of technical subject matter, the Flesch score is usually relatively low for technical documentation. If the Flesch test is used regularly, one may develop a sense of what a reasonable score is for the type of documentation one is working on and aim to maximize this score. The approach to calculating  
Flesch-Kincaid Reading Level	The Flesch-Kincaid Reading level measures textual difficulty and tells you the grade level of a text. The Flesch-Kincaid index tells how easy something is to read. It does this by counting the number of syllables in every word and the number of words in every sentence. Then some math is done. The number will represent a grade-school level. For example, a sentence with a score of 8.0 means that someone in 8th grade could understand it. Normal writing is usually between 7 and 8. 0.39 x Average No. of words in sentences + 11.8 x Average No. of syllables per word - 15.59  
February	February is the second month of the year with 28 days in most years. In leap years February has 29 days. In Sweden in 1732 the month had 30 days. This was to make the calendar match the rest of the world. In 1930 and 1931, February had 30 days in the Soviet Union because the government changed all the months to be 30 days long. The name comes either from the Roman Mythology god Februus or else from "februa", the festivals of purification celebrated in Rome every fifteenth of this month. February is one of the last two months to be added to the calendar (the other is January). This is because in the original Roman calendar, the two months of Winter, when not much happen in agriculture, did not have names. From circa 700 BC, when Numa Pompilius, the second king of Rome, added it to the calendar, February had 23 days and 24 days on some of every second year, until 46 BC when Julius Caesar assigned it 29 days on every fourth year and 28 days otherwise. February's flower is the Violet with its birthstone being the Amethyst. The meaning of the Amethyst is Sincerity. Events in February. This is a list of annual events or festivals.  
FAQ	FAQ is an abbreviation for "Frequently Asked Question(s)". The term is used for a list questions and answers. All of the questions are supposed to be asked often and they all are about the same thing. Since the acronym was first used in written form, there are different ways it is said; both "fak" and "F.A.Q." are commonly used.  
Freedom	Freedom, for people, means not being owned or controlled by anyone else. The best way to describe it is as the opposite of "slavery". Special cases. Freedom does not always mean that people do as they want. There are many things that may not let people do that. So freedom is a very political and philosophical idea. A difficult problem is that sometimes people make bad choices. They may make choices which stop them doing things they want to do later. If they had not been free to make the bad choice, they "would" have be able to do the things they wanted later. So, some people think that it is sometimes OK to control someone else, if it helps that person do things they want in the end. For example, it is okay to say that a child who wants to get a good job must go to school, because when the child grows up, they will be able to get that job. Or, if a person has decided they do not want to drink alcohol and drive, it is okay to stop them driving if they drink. Because of this, some philosophers (like Isaiah Berlin) think there are two kinds of freedom. They say that not being owned or controlled by anyone else is called "negative freedom" or "freedom from". They believe that there is another kind of freedom called "positive freedom", or "freedom to". Positive freedom is the ability to do all of the things that you can and want to do. Some people also say that we should stop a person driving if they drink because they might get hurt - even if the person "did" want to drink and drive. Or we should make a child go to school even if they do not want to get a good job in the end, because they might change their mind when they grow up. These may be good ideas, but they are not "positive freedom". It is only "positive freedom" if you control the person now to help them do something that they want to do later, and you know for sure that they want to do it. These ideas are called "paternalism", where you control a person now to do something that you want them to do later, or that you think they should do. "Paternalism" makes a person less free, but it can make their life better, which is another hard question. Freedom today. Today, freedom is felt by many to be something that all human beings have from birth, and a natural right. This means that one is free by the fact that they are a human being. As humans, everyone has dignity that must be respected. Types of freedom. Some of the main types of human freedom are: freedom to life, freedom of association, freedom of belief, freedom to express oneself, freedom to choose one's state in life. However, the civil constitutions of each country have different definitions of the freedoms allowed to the citizens. It has been argued that any law limits freedom, since it sets limits on what people may do.  
Financial capital	Financial capital is a form of capital. It is things that have value, but do not do anything by themselves. They are only valuable because people value (want) them. For example, money is a form of financial capital. You cannot do anything with money but it still has value. Financial capital is used to pay for things, this is because there is always more of it and people always want it. This means that financial capital has a stable value and can be traded in most places and with most people. Some forms of financial capital, such as stocks, gold or bonds are not wanted by everybody. However they can be traded with people for money or another type of financial capital. Because of this, these forms of financial capital do not have a stable price. This means that some people try to make a profit by buying and selling these types of financial capital in a market. Some things are treated as financial capital, even though they do have a use. For example, some people buy and sell land but are not interested in doing anything with it. Some people think this sort of trade is bad because the land should be used and not just treated like money. Other types of capital, such as social capital and human capital are rarely treated like financial capital. This may be because they involve people. Treating useful capital like financial capital is called comodification. In politics, a common question is how often the government should use financial capital. In particular, should the government use financial capital to make a profit? Traditionally, liberal politicians do not mind this kind of trading for profit, but socialist or conservative politicians are against it.  
Fecund universes	Fecund universes is a multiverse theory of Lee Smolin. It relies on models of our universe and statistics from astrophysics but is more correctly a theory of cosmology. In this theory, collapsing stars, or black holes, are always creating new universes with slightly different laws of physics. Because these laws are only slightly different, each is assumed to be like a mutation of the original universe, as if each universe was a kind of single-celled organism. It would reproduce by "splitting" in some sense. This theory relies on many models of our universe to model these "mutated" alternative universes, the ones that Smolin supposes are generated or "spun off" by black holes. No human can ever be part of any of these "other" universes. Observations from astrophysics can only say if the black holes exist or are common, and give some idea of how much the laws of physics can vary and still let the new universes produce new black holes. Smolin predicts that there would be many black holes in the universe humans can see, since they are likely in a very late born universe, by simple probability. If there are many black holes, that is evidence for his theory, As this shows, cosmology has a very different standard of evidence and burden of proof than is required for models of our universe only, which humans (using mathematics) can observe and exchange knowledge on. It is hard to separate science from religion on such questions. It may be a simple matter of preference whether one wants to see one's universe as part of a system like biology or like mechanics - clockwork. Smolin's theory is important mostly because it challenges the mechanistic paradigm. Even if it is wrong, it raises the idea that living beings might have to see their universe as also living to be able to understand or care about it at all. Some compare Smolin's theory to Gaia philosophy which combines biology, geology and ecology to explain the Earth, our planet, as a living thing. If both are right, humans are on a living planet in a living universe. This idea is very appealing - which does not mean it is really "right". Some think both are a kind of religion.  
Food	Food is material of animal or plant origin, eaten by living things to provide energy and nutrition. Food contains the nutrition that people need to be healthy. People need to eat protein, carbohydrates, vitamins, and minerals to be healthy. Liquids used for energy and nutrition are often called "drinks". Food for humans is mostly made through farming or gardening, and includes animal and vegetable sources. Some people refuse to eat food from animal origin, like meat, eggs and products with milk in them. Not eating meat is called vegetarianism. Not eating or using any animal products is called veganism). Food produced by farmers or gardeners can be transformed by industrial processes (the food industry). Processed food usually contains several natural ingredients and food additives (such as preservative, antioxidants, emulsifiers, flavour enhancers, etc.). At home, food is prepared in the kitchen, by the cook. The cook sometimes uses a cookbook. Examples of cooking utensils are pressure cooker, pot, and pan. Food can also be prepared and served in restaurants (often workers, or in the evening for entertainment) or refectory (in particular for kids in school). The utensils used may be a plate, knife, fork, chopsticks, spoon, bowl, or spork. Most people do not grow their own food, so they have to buy food that was grown by someone else. People buy most of their food in stores, shops, or markets. But some people still grow most or all of their own food. People may buy food and take it home to cook it, or buy food that is ready to eat from a street vendor, or in a restaurant. Food-related issues. Food shortage is still a big problem in the world today. Many people do not have enough money to buy the food that they need. Bad weather or other problems sometimes destroy the growing food in one part of the world. When people do not have enough food, we say that they are hungry. If they do not eat enough food for a long time, they will become sick and die from starvation. In areas where many people do not have enough food, we say that there is famine there. Food can make people sick if it is contaminated by micro-organisms, heavy metals, or chemicals. If people do not eat the right foods, they can become sick. If people do not eat enough protein, they get the disease called kwashiorkor. If they do not eat enough vitamin B1 (thiamine), they get the disease called beriberi. If people eat too much food, they can become overweight or obese. This is also bad for people's health. Food in religions. Many cultures or religions have food taboos. That means they have rules what people should not eat, or how the food has to be prepared. Examples of religious food rules are the "Kashrut" of Judaism and the "Halal" of Islam, which say that pig meat cannot be eaten.  
Fine	The word fine is used in English with two very different meanings. 1) People sometimes use the word fine as an adjective to mean that something is good. 2) We also use the word fine as a noun with a different meaning. Often, if a court or a judge says that someone did a crime, then the person has to pay some money to their government. This money is called a fine. Governments make these fines so people won't want to do the crime. Sometimes we often use the word "fine" in the same way for businesses instead of governments. For example there are some businesses that will let us take books or videos to use in our homes for a few days. But if we keep the book or video for too long, we might have to pay a fine to that business.  
Frying	To fry food is to cook it in hot butter or vegetable oil. We can fry food in a small amount of butter or oil in a pan or in a lot of oil in a pot. Some restaurants also have large deep fryers to fry a lot of food at once.  
Fish	A fish (plural: fish or fishes) is a kind of animal that lives in water, and breathes the oxygen in the water instead of air using gills, which are special flaps that let them breathe in water. There are many different kinds of fish. Fish usually have scales and fins. They live in fresh water in lakes and rivers, and in salt water in the ocean. Some fish are less than one centimeter long. The largest fish is considered to be the whale shark, which can be almost 15 meters long and weigh 15 tons. People and fish. People eat many kinds of fish. The fish that people eat most include carp, cod, herring, perch, sardines, sturgeon, tilapia, trout, tuna, and many others. Some people keep fish as pets. Goldfish and Siamese Fighting Fish are popular types of pet fish. They are often kept by groups of people in public ponds for their beauty and calming nature. Bony and cartilagenous fish. Most kinds of fish have bones. Some kinds of fish, such as sharks and rays, do not have real bones (their skeletons are made of cartilage) they are known as cartilagenous fish. Some scientists say that these are not real fish, but most people call them fish. Some other animals that live in the sea, such as starfish and jellyfish, are called fish, but are not really fish. The word "to fish" is also used for the activity of catching fish. People catch fish with small nets from the side of the water or from small boats, or with big nets from big boats. People can also catch fish with fishing poles and fishhooks with bait. This is often called fishing. there is also different types of lures that can be used. one is a crank bait. others are like plastic worms and rat-l-traps. these are ways of catching fish.  
Foot	A foot (one "foot", two or more feet) is a body part on the end of a leg. We use it when walking, and it is important for balance: it helps us stand straight. We also use it to kick, in both fighting and sports, football being an example. People's hands and feet have the same shape: they both have five "digits" (the fingers and toes). Many other animals with backbones also have five digits. The part of the foot which joins it to the leg is called the "heel". The bottom of the foot is called the "sole". Half the bones in our body are in the foot. Doctors who work with people's feet are "podiatrists" or "chiropodists". Animals often have feet, and there are a lot of different sorts of foot. When an animal has soft feet, or feet with soft parts on the underside, we often call it a "paw". In many societies, people like to cover the foot when they are with others, especially outside. In many cultures (for example North American, European, Japanese and others) people wear clothing over the foot to keep it safe. This footwear has special names, for example "sandals", "shoes", and "boots". When people always wear footwear, especially in hot places or when they are very active, their feet can smell badly ("foot odour"). If footwear is too big or small, it can be bad for the feet when the person wears the shoe, and also much later. But people who have foot, leg, and back problems can also get help from special shoes. People have different traditions in different parts of the world for when to wear footwear. For example, in much of Europe and Canada, people usually do not wear their shoes or boots in a home or visiting. In the United States people often wear shoes inside a home. In Japan, people do not wear shoes, and floors are often made of very soft materials, too soft for shoes. In cultures where people always wear shoes, people sometimes think it is bad not to wear them. But wearing no shoes is good for the feet, especially for children's feet. Conditions like Athlete's foot affect the feet, causing the feet to feel dry and cracked.  
France	France (French: "France"), officially the French Republic (French: "République française") is a country in Europe. Its capital city is Paris. France is a member of the European Union. France is known for its many monuments, structures, and places such as the Louvre, the Eiffel Tower, the Arc de Triomphe, Giverny, Versailles, and Notre Dame. France is a country divided into "régions" and "départements". France has been one of the world's biggest powers since the end of the 17th century. In the 18th and 19th centuries, France built a very big colonial empire. It is across West Africa and Southeast Asia. France is the most visited country in the world. 82 million foreign tourists visit it every year. France is a founding member of the European Union. It has the largest land area any of the members. France is also a founding member of the United Nations, and a member of the G8 and NATO. It is one of the five permanent members of the United Nations Security Council. France is a nuclear power with active warheads and nuclear power plants. There are many cities in France. Some of them are Nice, Marseille, Bordeaux, Lille, Lyon, Toulouse, Strasbourg, Nantes and of course Paris. Geography. France is in Western Europe. France has borders with Belgium, Luxembourg, Germany, Switzerland, Italy, Monaco, Andorra, and Spain. France has two mountain ranges near its borders: the Alps and the Pyrenees. In France there are a lot of rivers. Two of these rivers are the Seine and the Loire. In the north and west of France there are low hills and river valleys. In France there are many different climates. The Atlantic has a large effect on the weather in the north and west. This means the temperature is about the same most of the year. In the east winters are cold and clear. Summers are hot and stormy. In the south, summers are hot and dry. Winters are cool and wet. History. The name "France" comes from Latin "Francia", which literally means "land of the Franks" or "Frankland". The borders of modern France are about the same as those of ancient Gaul. Ancient Gaul was inhabited by Celtic "Gauls". Gaul was conquered for Rome by Julius Caesar in the 1st century BC. Eventually, the Gauls adopted Roman speech (Latin, from which the French language evolved) and Roman culture. Christianity first appeared in the 2nd and 3rd centuries AD. It became firmly established by the fourth and fifth centuries. In the 4th century AD, the Germanic tribes, principally the Franks invaded the gauls. This is how the name "Francie" appeared. The modern name “France” comes from the name of the Capetian Kings of France around Paris. The Franks were the first tribe of Europe after the fall of the Roman Empire to convert to Catholic Christianity rather than Arianism. The French called themselves “the Most Christian Kingdom of France”. The Treaty of Verdun (843), divided Charlemagne's Empire into three parts. The biggest area was Western Francia. It was the precursor to modern France. The "Carolingian" dynasty ruled France until 987, when Hugh Capet became King of France. His descendants, the Direct Capetians, the House of Valois and the House of Bourbon, unified the country with many wars and dynastic inheritance. The monarchy was the most powerful during the 17th century and the reign of Louis XIV of France. At that time France had the largest population in Europe (see Demographics of France). The country had a big influence over European politics, economy, and culture. French became the common language of diplomacy in international affairs. Much of the Enlightenment happened in France. Major scientific breakthroughs were achieved by French scientists in the 18th century. France also obtained many overseas possessions in the Americas, Africa and Asia. France had a monarchy until the French Revolution in 1789. King Louis XVI and his wife, Marie Antoinette, were executed in 1793. Thousands of other French citizens were also killed. Napoleon Bonaparte took control of the Republic in 1799. He later made himself Emperor of the First Empire (1804–1814). His armies conquered most of continental Europe. After Napoleon's final defeat in 1815 at the Battle of Waterloo, the French monarchy was re-established. Later Louis-Napoléon Bonaparte created the Second Empire in 1852. Louis-Napoléon was removed after the defeat in the Franco-Prussian war of 1870. His regime was replaced by the Third Republic. France built a large colonial empire in the 18th and 19th centuries. The empire included parts of West Africa and Southeast Asia. The culture and politics of these regions were influenced by France. Many ex-colonies officially speak the French language. Administrative divisions. Then France is divided into 100 departments. The departments are divided into 342 arrondissements. The "arrondissements" are re-divided into 4,032 cantons. The smallest subdivision is the commune. On January 1, 2008, INSEE counted 36,781 communes in France. 36,569 of them are in metropolitan France and 212 of them are in overseas France. This is more than in any other European country. Government. The government of France is a semi-presidential system determined by the French Constitution of the French fifth Republic. The nation declares itself to be "an indivisible, secular, democratic, and social Republic" in it. The constitution provides for a separation of powers. It proclaims France's "attachment to the Rights of Man defined by the Declaration of 1789." Military. There are about 359,000 military personnel in France. France spends 2.6% of its GDP on defence. This is the highest in the European Union. France and the UK spend 40% of the EU defence budget. About 10% of France's defence budget is for nuclear weapons force. Foreign relations. France is a member of the United Nations. It is permanent members of the United Nations Security Council and has veto rights. It is also a member of the World Trade Organisation (WTO). It hosts the headquarters of the OECD, UNESCO and Interpol. In 1953, France was asked by the United Nations to choose a coat of arms to represent them internationally. The French emblem is now on their passports. France was a founding member of the European Union. In the 1960s, France wanted to exclude the British from the organisation. It wanted to build its own power in continental Europe. Since the 1990s, France has got closer to Germany. This was to try to become the most influential country in the EU. It consequently created rivalry the UK and limited the influence of newly inducted East European nations. France is a member of the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation. However, under President de Gaulle, it excluded itself from the joint military command. In the early 1990s, France was criticised for its underground nuclear tests in French Polynesia. France vigorously opposed the 2003 invasion of Iraq. France retains strong political and economic influence in its former African colonies. For instance it has supplied economic aid and troops for peace-keeping missions in the Ivory Coast and Chad. Economy. France is a member of the G8 group of leading industrialised countries. France is ranked as the eighth largest economy in the world by Gross domestic product (GDP) adjusted for purchasing power parity which takes into account how much it costs to live in different countries and inflation rates. France and 11 other European Union members joined to launch the euro on 1 January 1999. France's economy has nearly 2.9 million companies registered. The government has a considerable influence over railway, electricity, aircraft, and telecommunications firms. France has an important aerospace (design of aircrafts and spacecrafts) industry led by Airbus. It can also launch space shuttles from French Guiana. France invested a lot in nuclear power. This made France the smallest producer of carbon dioxide among the seven most industrialized countries in the world. As a result, most of the electricity produced in the country is generated by 59 nuclear power plants (78% in 2006, up from only 8% in 1973, 24% in 1980, and 75% in 1990). France is the leading agricultural producer and exporter in Europe. France exports: Wheat, poultry, dairy products, beef and pork. It is also famous for its wine industry. France received $10 billion euros in 2006 from the European Community as subsidies to its farmers. Language. French is the official language of France. It belongs to the Romance language group, which includes Italian and Spanish. Many regional dialects are used in France. Alsatian, a German dialect is spoken in Alsace and in parts of Lorraine in eastern France. French used to be the language of diplomacy and culture in Europe around 17th - 19th century. Some people in France also speak Basque, Breton, Catalan, Corsican, German, Flemish, and Occitan. Religion. France is a secular country and freedom of religion is guaranteed by the constitution. The population is about 51% Roman Catholic and 31% is agnostics or atheists. 4% is identified as Muslim, 3% identified as Protestant and 1% identified as Jewish. 10% is identified as being from other religions or being without opinion. Literature. French literature began in the Middle Ages. French was divided into several dialects at the time. Each writer used his own spelling and grammar. During the 17th century Pierre Corneille, Jean Racine and Molière's plays and Blaise Pascal and René Descartes's books influenced the aristocracy. They also influenced future authors. In the 18th and 19th centuries, French literature and poetry reach its highest point. The 18th century saw the writings of such writers, essayists and moralists as Voltaire and Jean-Jacques Rousseau. As for French children's literature in those times, Charles Perrault was probably the most famous writer. He wrote stories such as: “Little Red Riding Hood”, “Cinderella”, “Sleeping Beauty” and “Puss in Boots”. Many famous French novels were written in the the 19th century by author such as Victor Hugo, Alexandre Dumas and Jules Verne. They wrote popular novels like The Three Musketeers, The Count of Monte-Cristo, Twenty Thousand Leagues Under the Sea, or The Hunchback of Notre-Dame. Other 19th century fiction writers include Emile Zola, Guy de Maupassant, Théophile Gautier and Stendhal. Sports. The Tour de France cycling race in July is one of the best-known sporting events. It is a 3 week (3,500 km) race that covers most of France and ends in the center of Paris. Football is another popular sport in France. The French team won the FIFA World Cup in 1998 and the UEFA European Football Championship in 1984 and 2000. France is also famous for its "24 Hours of Le Mans" car race. France also hosted the Rugby World Cup in 2007 and finished fourth. France is closely associated with the Modern Olympic Games. At the end of the 19th century the Baron Pierre de Coubertin suggested to have Olympic Games again. France hosted the Summer Olympics twice. In 1900 and in 1924 in Paris. France also hosted the Winter Games three times. In 1924 in Chamonix, in 1968 in Grenoble and in 1992 in Albertville). Tourism. France is the first tourist destination in the world. In 2007, 81.9 million foreign tourists visited France. Spain comes second (58.5 million in 2006) and the United States come third (51.1 million in 2006). Some of the most famous attractions in France are the Eiffel Tower and the Arc de Triomphe. They are in Paris, the capital of France. Another one is Mont Saint Michel. A European Disneyland is located in a suburb east of Paris. The resort opened in 1992 and is a popular tourist destination in Europe.  
Finland	Finland ("Suomi" in Finnish) is a country in Northern Europe and is a member state of the European Union. Finland is one of the Nordic countries. It is also part of Scandinavia.Finland is located between 60th and 70th latitudes of North. Its neighbours are Sweden in west, Norway in north, Russia in east and Estonia at south, beyond the sea called Gulf of Finland. Most of the western and southern Finland is seashore of the Baltic sea. The capital of Finland is Helsinki. The currency of Finland is the Euro (EUR). It was "markka", FIM, before 2002. The president of Finland is Tarja Halonen. 5.3 million humans live in Finland. Finnish and Swedish are the official languages of Finland. Most people in Finland speak Finnish, but there is about six percent of Finland's population which speak Swedish as their mother tongue, living mostly in the west of Finland and on Åland(Finnish Ahvenanmaa). Finland became independent in 1917. The most important cities in Finland are Helsinki, Espoo, Tampere, Vantaa, Turku, Oulu, Lahti, Kuopio, Jyväskylä and Pori. Finland is a highly industrialized First World country. The most important Finnish industrial products are paper, steel products such as machines, and electronics. Nokia (the mobile company) is originally a company of Finland named after a small town called Nokia. People and culture. The people of Finland are called Finns. Most Finns speak Finnish language as their mother tongue. Some 6% of Finns have Swedish language as their mother tongue. Most Finns have also have studied some other language, like English language in school. Most Finns work either in services (that is: shops, banks, offices or businesses) or in factories. Finns often like saunas and nature. Many Finnish families have a summer cottage, a small house where they go to relax on their summer holiday. The most important parties that Finnish people celebrate are Midsummer and Christmas. Santa Claus is an old Finnish tradition, although later the Coca-Cola company introduced him to the world. In North America some children think he lives near the north pole. In Finland and neighbouring countries, he lives in a small mountain called Korvatunturi ("Ear mountain"). The most popular sports in Finland are ice hockey, skiing and track and field. Recently Finns have also won many events in swimming and motor sports. There is a very small group (minority) of Sami (also called Lapp) people in the most northern part of Finland called Lapland. Many sami people have reindeer and colourful clothes. in the past the Sami were nomads, but now they live in regular houses. Very few people in Finland are from other countries, only about one percent. Nature and weather. Most of Finland is covered by pine forest. The swan is the national bird of Finland. The swan was a holy animal long ago. Wood is even today the most important natural resource of Finland. It is estimated that up to one-thirds of all wood resources of European Union are in Finland. The national animal of Finland is the brown bear. And the largest animal is the elk (moose). There are also hundreds of rivers and thousands of lakes with fresh water. Fishing is a popular sport. It is estimated there are almost 180,000 lakes in Finland. Many islands in the Baltic Sea belong to Finland, too. Thousands of islands are part of the Åland archipelago. Tourists from all over the world come to see the fells and the Northern lights of Lapland. The highest mountain of Finland is Halti, 1328 m. The largest lake is Saimaa, 4,400 square kilometers. The longest river of Finland is Tornionjoki, 570 km from Lake Kilpisjärvi. The largest river (by watershed) is Kemijoki, 552 km. The weather in Finland varies a lot by the season. The summer lasts usually from May to early September, and temperatures can reach up to +35 °C. Autumns are dark and rainy. Permanent snow falls in Helsinki in early December (in Lapland it can fall already in October) and in the winter the temperature can be -30 °C. The winter usually lasts to mid-March when the snow melts away in Helsinki (in Lapland the snow usually melts away in early May), and spring to late May. Springs are vigorous and the weather can vary from frost to sunshine in a matter of days. Northern lights are common in Lapland. History of Finland. People first came to Finland 10 000 years ago. That was just after an ice age, just after very thick ice that was on ground had melted away. Some think the first people in Finland already spoke a language that is related to Finnish that is spoken today. We know for sure that early form of Finnish language was spoken in Finland in the Iron age. (The Iron Age was in Finland 2500-800 years ago). First people killed wild animals and ate them, but did not farm their food. Those kind of people are called "hunter-gatherers". Some people started to farm to make some food 5200 years ago. Farming slowly became more and more popular and became the major way of life until the modern age. The religion of Finnish people was paganism. The biggest god of Finns was Ukko. He was a god of sky and thunder. About a thousand years ago some Finns changed their religion to Christianity, and slowly Christianity became more and more popular. Some pagan beliefs still remained amongst the Christian beliefs. During the Reformation of Christianity most Finnish people became protestants. From the Middle ages Finland was a part of Sweden. Then in year 1809 AD Russia took Finland from Sweden. Then Finland was a part of Russia, but Finland was autonomic, which means Finns could make decisions about many things in Finland. Finns could make their own laws and Finland had their own money (called markka), their own stamps and own customs. However Finland did not have its own army. Then in 1917, Finland became independent, it was no longer a part of Russia. There was a communist revolution in Russia and after 1922 Russia was a part of the Soviet Union. There were communists in Finland too, and they tried to make revolution in Finland. This attempt of revolution caused Finnish civil war. Communists lost the civil war, and Finland remained its old capitalist system. Stalin who was leader of the Soviet Union did not like that there was a capitalist country as the neighbour. Stalin wanted Finland to turn to communist state and be a part of the Soviet Union. Leaders of Finland refused; they wanted to stay independent. Soviet Union sent many troops to Finland to try to make Finland join it. This was the Winter war. There were many fights, and Finnish soldiers won many times. Finally, the leaders of both countries agreed to make peace. Finland was not joined with the Soviet Union, but had to give away some land to make the peace. Parts of Karelia were with those areas lost to Soviet Union. Adolf Hitler was a chief in Germany, and he wanted to invade Soviet Union. Finland wanted its lost areas back, so Finland joined the German invasion, that started at 1941. This part of Second world war is called Continuation war in Finland. However, Finland was not fascist or antisemitist country. Finns were interested in freedom and not dictatorship. Finnish Jews fought with other Finnish people against Soviet Union. Karelia was returned to Finland. While Germany was losing the war Finland wanted to stop fighting. Finland made peace with Soviet Union, but in that peace Finland lost parts of Karelia again. Also peace with Soviet Union made Finland and Germany enemies. Finns fought Germans, and Germans retreated to Norway. This is called War of Lapland. Finland remained independent. After the war, there were many factories built in Finland. Many people moved from farms to cities. At that time, big factories made things like paper, ships and steel. Now more and more people work on more advanced things, like high technology. Also, more people go to a university to get a good education. Finland was one of the first countries where most people had Internet connections and mobile phones. A known company that makes mobile phones, Nokia, is from Finland. Finland joined European Union in 1995. Finnish money markka was changed to European Unions money Euro in 2002.  
Fruit	Fruit is a type of food that is not always something one is able to eat. It is part of a tree or bush or sometimes grown out of the ground like watermelons, that contains seeds. For plants, fruits are used so that the plant can make new plants. When the fruit breaks apart, the seeds can get into mud and start growing. () Most fruits we eat contain a lot of water. They contain natural sugar. They have a large amount of dietary fiber at the peel, seeds, and fibrous parts. All fruits contain iron, and they are very low in protein and fat content. Sometimes "to bear fruit" also means "to produce results".  
Farm	A farm is a piece of land used to grow plants and/or raise animals for food. People who grow these plants or raise these animals are called farmers. This type of work is called farming. Land that is used to grow plants for food, or could be used to grow plants for food is called arable land. A life raising animals for food is called a pastoral life.  
Geography	 Description . Geography is the study of the Earth and its features, its inhabitants, and its phenomena. Its "features" are things like continents, seas, rivers and mountains. Its "inhabitants" are all the people and animals that live on it. Its "phenomena" are the things that happen like tides, winds, and earthquakes. A person who is expert in geography is a "geographer". A geographer tries to understand the world and the things that are in it, how they started and how they have changed. Geography is not the same as ecology. A geographer tries to describe how things are, while an ecologist thinks about changes that might happen in the future. Ecologists need the work of geographers so that they can work out the future. The word "geography" comes from the Greek words "gê" ("Earth") and "graphein" ("to write"). It means "to write about the Earth". The word was first used by a scientist called Eratosthenes (276-194 B.C.). Geography is divided into two main parts called Physical Geography and Human Geography. Physical Geography studies the "Natural Environment" and Human Geography studies the "Human Environment". The human environmental studies would include things such as the population in a country, how a country's economy is doing, and more. Geographers need to know a lot about maps because maps are very important for understanding geography. Geographers use maps a lot, and often make them. Making maps is called cartography, and similarly, people who make maps are cartographers. (It comes from the word for a "chart")  
Good	The word good can be an adjective that means something that is wanted. Something that is good is not bad. See good in the dictionary.  
Goodness	Goodness can mean that something is good, or it can mean the amount that something is good. What goodness is has been talked about by philosophers who try to explain what goodness is. In food, goodness is the part that is beneficial.  
Grammar	Grammar refers to the rules about how to speak and write well in a language. For example, Spanish grammar is different from English grammar. It has different rules. In English, a person may say "I like fast cars", but in Spanish, it is "me gustan los coches rápidos." The order of the words has changed: if just the words, without the grammar, are translated into English, it would mean "to me they please the cars fast" Even though this is not good English grammar, it is correct in Spanish. This is because Spanish and English have different rules about word order. Grammar is slowly changing. Sentences English speakers find normal today might have seemed strange to people 100 years ago. Some people use grammar that is different from others' when speaking. They might say, "I didn't do nothing" rather than "I didn't do anything." They usually do this because that is what is normal in their family or the area where they live. Grammar studies noun, pronoun, verb, adjective, adverb, preposition, conjunction. Grammar studies sentence structure: syntax.  
Great Lakes	The Great Lakes are five very big lakes in eastern North America. They are, in fact, the biggest fresh water lakes in the world (freshwater is water that is not salty like the ocean). Four of the Great Lakes are on the border between Canada and the United States of America. The other, Lake Michigan, is entirely inside the United States. Water flows from Lake Superior and Lake Michigan into Lake Huron; then through the Detroit River into Lake Erie; then through Niagara Falls into Lake Ontario; and then through the Saint Lawrence River to the Atlantic Ocean.  
GNU Free Documentation License	The GNU Free Documentation License (GFDL) is a copyleft license for open content. It was made up by the Free Software Foundation (FSF) for the GNU project. It was initially created for use with software documentation, but can be applied to other types of works as well. As a copyright license, the GFDL is a type of contract between the creator of a copyrightable work (such as a book, an encyclopedia article, a painting, or a piece of music) and anyone else who might want to use it. The GFDL is considered "copyleft" because the license is meant to make it easier to use and re-use the copyrighted work, not to restrict its use. If a copyrightable work is released under the GFDL, the creator of the work is saying that anyone else may reproduce, distribute, or modify the work, as long as they follow a set of requirements specified in the GFDL. Among the requirements of the GFDL are that any new work created from the original work is also licensed under the GFDL — that is, once something is licensed as GFDL, it will always stay licensed as GFDL, and anything which uses it also is licensed as GFDL. (Because the license "reproduces" and stays with the work, this is sometimes called a "viral" license.) The GFDL also says that in order to distribute or modify a work licensed with the GFDL, the re-user must give credit to any previous authors of the work, and include a list of changes they made to the work. Finally, any work licensed with the GFDL must contain, somewhere, the entire text of the license. This provision has been criticized, because it is not always easy to include an entire, long license with a copyrighted work. In a book, for example, it is easy to include one extra page with the license, but if the work is something like a song, or a photograph, it is not easy. The GFDL has other requirements that are more complicated. For example, if part of the work is labeled as an "invariant section," it cannot ever be removed or changed by someone using the work ("invariant" means "does not change"). Works licensed under the GFDL may be included in with non-GFDL-licensed works only if it is clear which parts of the work are licensed as the GFDL. For example, in a book of poetry it would be easy to label some poems as licensed under the GFDL and some not licensed under it. But it would not be easy to label if part of a song was licensed as GFDL and the rest was not, so this would not be allowed. Any use of GFDL material which violates the terms of the GFDL is potentially copyright infringement. A number of online projects use the GFDL. The largest online project to license its content under the GFDL is Wikipedia. The GFDL has been criticized by many people who wish that it made it even easier for content to be re-used. Among the criticisms are that it is very hard to combine GFDL material with other copyleft licenses, that it is not always clear and easy to understand, and that some of its requirements, such as the "invariant sections", are not free at all.  
Glass	Glass is a hard material that can be made in many shapes. It is usually transparent, but it can also be made in colours. Glass is often used to make windows and bottles. Many churches have windows made of colored glass. The word "glass" can also refer to a drink container. It does not have to be made of glass, but can be made of any material, for example plastic. Glass is used to make lenses. The word "glasses" is often used to mean eyeglasses. The myth that glass is actually a liquid emanates from the fact that old windows in houses/church's(2-300 years old) are sometimes a little out of shape, thicker in the bottom than on the top. However this phenomenon is due to the process of glass manufacture in the past which led to the glass pane being thicker at one end than the other. It was sensible to install the windows with the thick end at the bottom. Sometimes a window can be found with the thick end at the top of the window.  
God	God as a proper noun is the word most commonly used to refer to the ultimate power across all religions. As an improper noun, the word "god" means a deity who has supernatural powers. Belief in God is commonly called by the term theism. Atheism is the word that refers to non-belief in God or any gods. God in the Abrahamic religions. The Abrahamic religions, including Judaism, Christianity and Islam, are popular monotheistic religions. Therefore, they believe in only one god. The name of God is traditionally not to be said in Judaism, but some people today call him YHWH (Yahweh) or Jehovah. Muslims commonly use the word Allah, which is simply the Arabic word for "The God." Believers in the Abrahamic religions believe that the Abrahamic God has created human beings in his image, but this idea is rarely taken literally. The Abrahamic God's portrayal as an old man with a beard has been used in art since the Renaissance, but is not what most monotheists actually believe him to look like. Concepts of God in Christianity. The Christian Bible talks about God in different ways. According to Christians, the Old Testament talks about "God the Father"; the New Testament says something about Jesus. The New Testament says that Jesus was God's son. Many Christians also believe that Jesus was God's incarnation on earth. Christians consider the Holy Spirit to be God as well. In early times, Christians tried to solve this problem, as in the Old Testament, orTorah, there is purported to be only one god. However, in the New Testament, there were three who were said to be God. The most popular explanation they could find is called the Holy Trinity: The three mentioned are all part of the same God. Some Christians do not believe in the Trinity. Some believe that Jesus was just a man that talked about God and taught people about God. Members of the Unitarian Church have these beliefs. Christians believe that God came to Earth in the form of a man (Jesus) to save humanity. In this sense, God became man, and when Jesus prayed and talked to God, he called him "Father," and taught others to do the same. God in Hinduism. In Hinduism, there is really only one God, who is referred to as Brahman. However, Brahman is said to have taken on many different incarnations, such as Rama, Krishna, Buddha, Shiva, Kali, Parvati, and Durga. To many outsiders, the worship of God's different incarnations in Hinduism is considered to be the worship of many gods. However, it is really only the worship of one God in different ways. Some Hindus also believe that the spirit of God lives in everyone. This idea is called Advaita Vedanta, which is the Hindu term for Monism. God in Other Eastern Religions. Religions like Buddhism and Confucianism involve the worship of many gods, or sometimes no gods at all. God in Western philosophy. Philosophers often try to understand gods through logic. When philosophers talk about "God," they talk about a being like the one described above, but not about the god of any particular religion. God in philosophy is discussed without any religious texts. One of the earliest Western philosophers to write about God in a monotheistic way was the Greek Aristotle, who describes god as the Supreme Cause. Aristotle saw God as a being that makes everything happen, but is not influenced by anything else. There are also some philosophical problems with God. One of them is called God paradox. It is a question about whether (an omnipotent) God can make a mountain that is so heavy he cannot lift it.  
Ghost	A ghost is considered to be the spirit of a dead person. Scientists say that there are no real ghosts, but many people believe that there are. There are many stories about ghosts in books and movies. Sometimes the ghost is the spirit of a person who was killed by enemies or who died in a scary way. The ghost may stay on Earth because he or she is angry due to some problem in life and wants to scare people or to harm his or her enemies. Sometimes ghosts are said to live in a particular locality, for example an abandoned house, and when occupants come they tease them to drive away or cause serious damage to the occupants. Sometimes the ghosts in these stories exist because of some problem the person had during life, that was not solved before he or she died. The ghost stays on the Earth trying to fix the problem. If the problem is fixed, the ghost can leave the Earth. Many ghosts stay on Earth also because they have died younger or have had sudden or abrupt deaths. Many people claim to have seen or heard ghosts, and are called Mediums. Many people believe they have seen ghosts. Others believe they have felt ghosts near them. Often the ghost is said to appear as a feeling of cold and a light or a misty cloud, but sometimes people say they have seen ghosts that look more like people. Sometimes ghosts are said to come in human form, that is, in the body of a person. Some ghosts might cause fear in the person who sees them, by being seen suddenly. Some ghosts are said to be friendly and help people who are in problems. The ghost might also appear as they did at the time of their death, including any blood or injuries. Ghosts can also appear and disappear as they wish. Many ghosts haunt the place they have died or a living loved one. (Or their murder, in some cases). Some may seek revenge or stay simply because they are confused. Ghosts can form right after they die, or even centuries later. Many people make up stories or urban legends. many try to prove the existence of these paranormal creatures with special technology such as heat sensors. They also make TV shows dedicated to proving the existence of ghosts, often investigating cases where a person has seen one or visiting a place where there was a sighting.  
Green	Green is a color. It is one of the colors of the rainbow. Green is between the yellow and blue colors in a rainbow. Green paint can be made by mixing yellow paint and blue paint together. Green light, like all light, is formed from waves. In its wave, the distance between the smallest repeating parts (the wavelength) is about 550 nanometers (one-billionth of a meter). Most leaves of growing plants, such as trees and bushes, are green. This is because there is a chemical in leaves, called chlorophyll, which is green. Meaning of Green. Green is seen as the color of nature. It is a symbol of growth, harmony, freshness, and fertility. Dark green is also associated with money in the United States (American dollars are called "greenbacks). Green is also seen as be able to stay the same and endurance. Sometimes green can stand for "no experience". For example, a 'greenhorn' is a beginner. In heraldry, green stands for growth and hope. Green also stands for safety. It is the color for "GO" on traffic lights. Because green is seen as the color of nature, it is often used with environment-friendly products. A person who is said to have a "green thumb" is good at growing plants. "Dark green" is associated with ambition, greed, and jealousy. A very pale "Yellow-green" can mean sickness, being scared, discord, and jealousy. However, a bright "chartreuse green" can mean health and healing. "Aqua" is associated with making someone feel better and protection, as well as being associated with good health from getting exercise by going swimming. "Olive green" is the traditional color of peace.  
God's eye view	A special case of the last is in a wiki with a GodKing. Often this person can get others to believe what they say about what is right, without making any special effort to be fair to other views. Many people think Rene Descartes took a God's eye view when he said cogito ergo sum. George Berkeley argued that optics from Isaac Newton and Johannes Kepler also had this problem.  
Google	Google is one of the biggest and most famous websites for finding things (Search Engine) on the World Wide Web (WWW). They also do things apart from searching. Other search engines (for example, AOL) use its software and information (database) too. That makes it the most-used search engine on the web. Every day, 200 million people use it. That is 200 000 000 people. Google's main office ("Googleplex") is in Mountain View, California, USA. With Google, people can also search for pictures, Usenet newsgroups, news, and things to buy online. By June 2004, Google indexed (or put in its database) 4.28 billion webpages, 880 million (880 000 000) pictures and 845 million (845 000 000) Usenet messages — six billion things. "To google," as a doing word (verb) means "to search for something on Google"; because Google is so popular (over 50% of web users use it) it has been used to mean "to search the web". Google dislikes this use since Google is a trademark and Google can lose that trademark if people use it too widely. History. Google began as a project in early 1996 by Larry Page and Sergey Brin, two students at Leland Stanford University, USA. They made it into a company, Google Inc., on September 7, 1998 at a friend's garage in Menlo Park, California. In February 1999, the company went to 165 University Ave., Palo Alto, California. Then, later that year, it went to another place, now called the "Googleplex". In September 2001, Google's rating system ("PageRank", for saying which information is more helpful) got a U.S. Patent. The patent was to Leland Stanford University, with Lawrence Page as the inventor (the person who first had the idea). Google makes a significant, though getting less (declining), percentage of it's money through its friends like America Online and InterActiveCorp. It has a special group known as the Partner Solutions Organization (PSO) which helps make contracts, help making accounts better, and The name "Google". The name "Google" is a misspelling on the word "googol". Milton Sirotta, nephew of U.S. mathematician Edward Kasner, made this word in 1938, for the number 1 and one hundred 0's. It is said that the word "googol" was chosen as a name for this number because it sounded like baby talk. Google uses this word because the company wants to make lots of stuff on the Web easy to find and use. Andy Bechtolsheim first thought of the name.(1 googol is 10 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000) The name for Google's main office, the "Googleplex," (Very big Number) is a play on a different, even bigger number, "googolplex", which is 1 with 1 googol of 0's.  
Gallon	A gallon is a unit of measurement used to measure volume. People have used many different gallons throughout history. There are three types of gallon still in use.  
Government	A government is a group of people that has the power to rule in a territory, according to the law. This territory may be a country, a state or province within a country, or a region. History and Theory of Government. The simplest idea of government is those who rule over people and land. This may be as small as a community with some sort of board that looks after the goings on of those who live within it or something a little larger like a village or as big as a continent (like Australia). Those people who rule the land can allow others to own it. It is a deed by government that gives this right in the way that laws describe. Some think they have the right to hold land without government permission. This view is called libertarianism. Others think they can do so together as a group with others if they live in peace, without government. This view is called anarchism. Almost every place on Earth is connected to one and only one government. Places without government are where people follow traditions instead of government rules, small border disputed areas and the continent of Antarctica, because almost no people live there. For every place on Earth there is a government that claims sovereign control over it. The word "sovereign" is old and means "control by a King" (sovereign). Governments of villages, cities, counties and other communities are also subordinate to the government of the state or province where they exist, and then to that of the country. It is from Kings and feudalism that modern governments and nation-states came. The capital of a country, for instance, is where the King kept his assets. From this we get the modern idea of capital in economics. A government is said to regulate trade as well as to rule over land. Governments also control people and decide things about what morality to accept or punish. In very many countries, there are strict rules about sexual intercourse and drugs that are part of law and offenders are punished for disobeying them. Tax is how government is paid for in most countries. People who buy, sell, import, invest, own a house or land, or earn money are made to pay some of the money to a government. There are many theories of how to organize government better. These are called theories of civics. Because government is run by people who can be greedy, many people think leaders must be elected by some kind of democracy. That way, if government does not act nice, they can be replaced in the next election. Still many countries' governments are not a democracy but other forms in which only a few people have power. There are many theories of how to run a government better, and keep people from hurting each other. These theories are part of politics. No matter how a government is chosen, it must do politics to keep power. There are many ideas about how to settle a dispute without needing force or violence but by talking and trusting. This is part of ethics. When religion convinces people not to fight or rely on government, we say an ethical tradition is at work. Most law comes from traditions like that. The Ten Commandments is one group of laws like that.  
Galaxy	"For the automobile, see Ford Galaxy." A galaxy is a group of many stars including gas, dust, and dark matter. Gravity holds galaxies together. Everything in a galaxy moves around a centre. The name galaxy is taken from the Greek word "Galaxia" meaning milky, a reference to the our own galaxy, the Milky Way. There are three main types of galaxies: ellipticals, spirals, and irregulars. All Galaxies exist inside the universe. There are an estimated one hundred billion galaxies within distance we can see or the Observable Universe. Each galaxy contains roughly one hundred thousand to one trillion stars. This makes the number of stars in the Universe more than every grain of sand on every beach on Earth. We can describe galaxies by the number of stars they have. The galaxy we call the Small Magellanic Cloud has about one billion stars in it. This is a small galaxy in comparison to most, but it isn't the smallest: Leo I and Leo II have about 1 million stars in them, and the Draco System has "only" a few hundred thousand stars. Astronomers call these galaxies "dwarf galaxies." In general, smaller groups are called "star clusters," not galaxies (a "cluster" is a group of something, like a cluster of grapes.) The largest star cluster, a globular cluster called Messier 15 has about 6 million stars, so we see that for small galaxies, there is a blurring together of what we mean by a galaxy and a large star cluster. In addition to their mass and numbers of stars, a galaxy is a collection of stars and gas which move through the universe independently of the Milky Way. Globular clusters are roundish swarms of stars that orbit the Milky Way, while the Leo and Draco Systems seem to be independent collections of stars. Many galaxies also continue to form new generations of stars. The Milky Way, and all spiral shaped galaxies like it (see above image of NGC 2997), produce new stars at a rate of one or two stars per year. These stars are formed in the vast interstellar clouds that account for about 1 to 10 percent of the mass of these galaxies. Globular star clusters, on the other hand, are not currently forming stars because this activity happened billions of years ago and then stopped once all of the gas and dust clouds were used up. It is hard to say if the galaxies we see are all that there really are. It is even hard to say if "are" means anything if we can never see or measure them. Models of our universe are sometimes finite, and sometimes infinite - if they are infinite we can never see all the galaxies. Often galaxies are also known as island universes.  
Geometry	Geometry is a kind of mathematics used to work with shapes. Examples of Shapes in Geometry. There are flat shapes and solid shapes in geometry. Squares, circles and triangles are some of the simplest shapes in flat geometry. Cubes, cylinders, cones and spheres are simple shapes in solid geometry. Measuring in Geometry. Geometry can be used to measure the area and perimeter of a flat shape. It can also be used to measure a solid shape's volume and surface area. How is Geometry Used? Many things have the shapes found in geometry. Where Did Geometry Come From? Geometry began as the art of measuring the shape of land so that it could be shared fairly between people. It means to measure the land. It has grown from this to become one of the most important parts of mathematics. The Greek mathematician Euclid wrote the first book about geometry. Some Simple Ideas in Geometry. A point is shown on paper by touching it with a pencil or pen, without making any sideways movement. We know where the point is, but it has no size. A straight line is the shortest distance between two points. For example, Sophie pulls a piece of string from one point to another point. A straight line between the two points will follow the path of the tight string. A plane is flat surface that does not stop in any direction. A ball placed any place on this flat surface will not move if gravity on the surface is constant.  
Graph theory	Graph Theory is about analyzing Graphs. A graph is a group of points and lines connecting each other, to make a picture of such a route. It is less detailed than a map and is used to find answers. Graph theory in perspective. Graph theory is an important part of mathematics and computer science. To many such problems, exact solutions do exist. Many times however, they are very hard to calculate. Therefore, very often, approximations are used. There are two kinds of such approximations, Monte-Carlo algorithms and Las-Vegas algorithms. Graphs are normally represented by two different sets, typically set a graph G would be represented as the collection of the sets V and E. The set V is a discrete set containing all vertices of the graph. The set E is a binary set, whose pairwise elements are elements of set V. Each pair in set E represents an edge connecting two vertices. If for all elements v1 and v2 of the set V, if and are both elements of E then the graph G is considered a Complete Graph. I would move forth to define a Path, a Walk, A weighted graph, a directional graph. Then make a comment about how all trees are just subsets of graphs. It could also be proven that all connected graphs may be represented as a Tree. There is more to graph theory than explained here.  
Goatee	A goatee is a beard formed by a tuft of hair under the chin, resembling that of a billy goat.  
Main Page	__NOTOC__  
Herm	Herm is the smallest of the Channel Islands that is open to the public. Herm is only 1½ miles long. Cars are banned from the small island just like its Channel Island neighbour, Sark. Unlike Sark, bicycles are banned too. The sandy white beaches make Herm a walker's paradise.  
History	History is the study of the past. People know what has happened in the past by looking at things "from" the past: books, newspapers and letters. Libraries, archives or museums collect and keep these things for studying history. A person who studies history is called a historian. A person who study prehistory is called an archaeologist and they study artefacts like pottery and stone tools instead of written sources. People can learn about the past by talking to people who remember things that happened in the past. This is called oral history. When people who had been slaves and American Civil War survivors got old, some historians recorded everything that they said, so that history would not be lost. In old times people in different parts of the world kept different histories because they did not meet each other very often. Some groups of people never met each other. Medieval Europe, Ancient Rome and Ancient China all thought that they ruled the only important parts of the world and that other parts were "barbarian". Current events, modern economic history, modern social history and modern intellectual history take very different views of the way history has affected the way that we think today.  
Health	Health is having "everything" we need to be happy. It is not having disease. It is having good food and water. It is having good family and friends. It is having a good spirit. It is having love. It is having a safe place to live. It is learning. It is growing. It is different things for different people. It changes in time for the same person.  
Harbor	Harbour means to shelter or keep safe. A harbor (or harbour) is a place where ships may shelter. A port is also a harbour, but is usually bigger. The port will often contain a water space with wave breakers around the edge, a number of quays or piers where the ships may be moored or tied up and a transport system for taking goods inland. Often railway and road transport will be used. Other ways that goods can be moved are pipeline transport and by using smaller ships on rivers. During the D-Day operations of 1944, two artifical harbours (named mulberry) were built just off the beaches where the invasion was going to happen.  
Hawaii	Hawaii is a U.S. state of the United States. It is the last state to join the United States. Hawaii became a state on August 21, 1959. It is the only state made only of islands. Hawaii is also the name of the largest island. The capital and largest city of Hawaii is Honolulu on the island named Oahu. Hawaii is known as the "Aloha State". "Aloha" is a Hawaiian word that has many meanings like welcome, hello and goodbye. Aloha also means love and care. The different meanings are brought together in the term "Aloha Spirit" to describe the friendly people of Hawaii. The state flower is the yellow hibiscus ("Hibiscus brackenridgei" or ma'o hau hele). The state bird is the Hawaiian goose (nene). The state fish is the reef triggerfish, also called the "humu humu nuku nuku apua'a". The state tree is the candlenut, also called "kukui". The state song is Hawaii Ponoi. The state motto is "Ua mau ke ea o ka aina i ka pono". In English it says, "The life of the land is perpetuated in righteousness". The first people of Hawaii were Polynesians. They came to the islands sometime between 200 and 600 AD. Captain James Cook is given credit for discovering the islands for the Europeans in 1778. Others may have been there before him. Captain Cook named the islands the Sandwich Islands for the fourth Earl of Sandwich, John Montague. Kamehameha I was the first king of Hawaii. He united the separate small Hawaiian kingdoms into one large kingdom in 1795. In 1893, American soldiers stopped Queen Liliuokalani from leading Hawaii when American business people took over the government and made their own laws. She was the last monarch of Hawaii. She also wrote the original words of the song called "Aloha Oe". The American business people made Hawaii into a republic for a short time. The new leader, Sanford Dole was called the President of Hawaii. In 1898, the United States of America took over the government and made Hawaii into a territory. Hawaii is an archipelago; a long chain of islands. There are eight main islands and many small islands and atolls. They are the tops of underwater volcanos. The main islands are Niihau, Kauai, Oahu, Molokai, Lanai, Kahoolawe, Maui and Hawaii. The biggest industry of Hawaii is tourism. Almost 7 million people visited in 2000. Important exports are sugar, pineapple, macadamia nuts, and coffee. Popular tourist sites include Waikiki Beach, Hawaii Volcanoes National Park, Polynesian Cultural Center, and the USS Arizona Memorial at Pearl Harbor.  
Honolulu, Hawaii	Honolulu is the capital city of the U.S. state of Hawaii. It is also the largest city in Hawaii and it has the most important harbor. It is on the south-east shore of the island of Oahu. Honolulu means "sheltered harbor" in the Hawaiian language. No one knows for sure when Honolulu was first settled or when the name was first used. Honolulu harbor was called Kulolia before foreigners came. The first foreigner was Captain William Brown of the English ship Butterworth, in 1794. He named the harbor Fair Haven. Other foreign captains started calling it Brown's Harbor. The name Honolulu was used some time after that. Honolulu quickly became the most important harbor of Hawaii. At that time, sandalwood was a big export. Honolulu was also an important supply point for whalers. Kamehameha III made Honolulu the capital city of the Kingdom of Hawaii in 1850. It was also the capital of the Republic of Hawaii and the Territory of Hawaii. It stayed the capital when Hawaii became a state in 1959.  
Hawaii (island)	The Island of Hawai'i is the largest of the U.S. Hawaiian Islands, and the southern. The island is built from seven separate shield volcanoes that erupted more or less one at a time, one partly covering the other. The later volcanoes mostly buried two of the earlier ones. These are (from oldest to youngest): Kohala (extinct), Ninole (extinct, mostly buried), Mauna Kea (extinct or dormant?), Hualalai (dormant), Mauna Loa (active), Kulani (extinct, mostly buried), and Kilauea (very active). The largest city on the island is Hilo. It is on the rainy east side of the island. The city of Kailua-Kona is on the dry west side of Hawaii, and is popular with tourists. Called locally the "Big Island," its area is 4,038 sq. miles (10 458 square kilometers). The widest part of the island is 93 miles (150 km) across. The Big Island makes up more than half (~62%) of the total land area of the State of Hawaii and is governed under the County of Hawaii.  
Hawaii Ponoi	"Hawai`i Pono`i" is the state song of Hawaii. The words were written by King David Kalakaua, the music by Prof. Henry Berger, the Royal Bandmaster. "Hawai`i Ponoi" was also the anthem of the Kingdom of Hawai`i and the Territory of Hawai`i.  
Healing	Healing is a process that happens in the body. Through healing, cells are able to repair damaged tissue. Most healing processes combine both ways of healing.  
History of Australia	People have lived in Australia for more than 50,000 years. The first people in Australia were the Aboriginal people. We think they came by boat from the islands of what is now Indonesia. They lived in all parts of Australia. Their lives were simple, they had very few needs. They lived by hunting, fishing and gathering food. They lived in bands, and they spoke many different languages. In 1606 people from the Netherlands, France, and Britain found the land currently known as Australia. First they found the north and west coast. This was dry and apparently uninhabitable land, and they found no economic reasons to stay. But in 1770 a British sailor, Captain James Cook, encountered the east coast of Australia. He called it New South Wales, and claimed it for Britain. He thought it would be a good place to settle. In 1788 the British sent a fleet of ships to settle Australia. Britain needed a place to send its convicts (people who had been sent to jail for theft and other crimes). Its jails were full. This First Fleet settled at a place they called Sydney. For the first few years they did not have much food, and life was very hard. But soon they began to farm, and more people came. Sydney grew, and new towns were started. Soon people from Sydney found other parts of Australia. George Bass and Matthew Flinders sailed south to Tasmania. Hamilton Hume and William Hovell went south by land. They found the Murray River, and good land in Victoria. Thomas Mitchell went inland, and found more rivers. Others went north and found Queensland. Soon more towns and cities were started. Then, gold was found in 1851. Many more people wanted to come to Australia. The country grew very fast, and some people became very rich. As the towns and farms spread across Australia, the Aboriginal people were pushed off their land. Some were killed, and many died from illness and hunger. Soon few were left, and they were made to live on small reserves. In 1840 Britain stopped sending convicts to Australia. The people in Australia wanted to run their own country, and not be told what to do from London. So in 1851 New South Wales, Victoria and the other colonies established their own Parliaments, where they could make their own laws. The goldrushes of New South Wales and Victoria started in 1851 leading to massive immigration and population growth across south east Australia and the generation of great wealth and industry. The Commonwealth of Australia. Until 1901, Australia was not a nation, it was six separate colonies governed by Britain. This worked well when everybody was British and there were only a few people. But now there was thousands of people and many of them had never been to Britain, an eight month journey away by sea. If people in one colony wanted to buy or sell things to people in another colony, they had to ask permission. They decided to join together to form one new country, the Commonwealth of Australia. This was called Federation, and happened in 1901. But Australia was still part of the British Empire, and still felt very close to Britain and the British King. Australia soon had its own money, and its own Army and Navy. Because Australia was a very big country, and was so close to Asia, the Australians feared that people from Asia might take the country over. So they passed a law that only people from Britain or other European countries could come to Australia. This was called the White Australia Policy. It lasted for more than 60 years. In Australia at this time, the trade unions were very strong, and they started a political party, the Labor Party. Australia passed many laws to help the workers. Australia was also one of the first places in the world where women could vote. In 1914, the First World War started in Europe. Australia joined in on the side of Britain and France, against Germany. Australian soldiers were sent to Gallipoli, in Turkey. They fought bravely, but were beaten by the Turks. Today Australia remembers this battle every year on ANZAC Day. They also fought in France and Belgium. More than 60,000 Australians were killed in the war. In 1939 the Second World War broke out. Again Australia joined in to help Britain. But in 1941 Japan attacked Australia, and Australians had to fight close to home for the first time. Many people feared that Japan would invade Australia. But with help from the United States, the Japanese were stopped. After the war, Australia became a close friend of the United States. When the war ended, Australia felt that it needed many more people to fill the country up and to work. So the government said it would take in people in Europe who had lost their homes in the war. Over the next 25 years, millions of people came to Australia. They came from Italy, Greece, Yugoslavia, Poland and other countries in Europe. Later they also came from countries like Turkey and Lebanon. In the 1960s the White Australia Policy was ended. Many people came to Australia from China, Vietnam, Malaysia and other countries in Asia. Some Australians began to think of their country as being a part of Asia for the first time. But other Australians did not like this and said that Australia should keep its European character. In the 1960s and 1970s Australia became one of the richest countries in the world, because it could mine a lot of iron and other things from the ground that other countries wanted to buy. Companies from United States and Europe came to Australia to increase their profits, and many Australians got jobs with them. Australia also supported the United States in wars in Korea, Vietnam and Iraq. Some Australians protested against these wars. Australia's democracy meant that both sides could say what they thought. Today Australia is a rich, peaceful and democratic country. But it still has many problems. Some people are still poor, mainly those who do not have jobs, or whose farms do not make enough money. The Aboriginal people want some of their lands back, and Australians do not agree on what to do about this. Australia also doesn't know what to do with refugees - people who come to Australia by boat saying they have nowhere else to go. Some Australians want to let them stay and live in Australia, but some other Australians do not want to let them in.  
History of Spain	Spain is a country located in Europe. Early History. People have lived on the Iberian Peninsula for about 500,000 years. Neanderthal man came about 200,000 years ago. Modern humans first came about 40,000 years The Roman Empire controlled Spain for three hundred years; then people from Northern Europe called the Visigoths fought for Spain and won it from the Romans. They were Christians, and they controlled Spain for two hundred years. A lot of people took over Spain from the 13th century but by the end of the 19th Century Spain was fairly poor,and was ruled by French people. Britain sent its own troops to defend Spain since it was so weak. This put first France, then Britain, in control of Spain for the rest of that century. Today Britain has strong ties to Spain from this time. Roman Catholics from Europe eventually decided to fight to take Spain from the Muslims. They fought wars for many hundreds of years, some of which were Crusades against other Christians like the Cathars. These were very cruel wars. Before this, several different kings had ruled different countries in what is now called Spain. Two of these countries, Castile and Aragon, came together when the king of Aragon, Ferdinand II, married the queen of Castile, Isabella. In the same year, 1492, they decided to send Christopher Columbus to explore the Atlantic Ocean. Columbus found a land there that the people of Europe did not yet know. These were the islands of the Caribbean Sea. Late 15th century. Columbus and other sailors explored more and found that there were two continents there - North America and South America. Spain sent many soldiers and businessmen to North and South America, and they took over very large parts of those two continents. Owning this empire made Spain very rich. But when they conquered that empire, they killed millions of the Native Americans who had lived there before. Spain owned this empire for more than three hundred years. Meanwhile, at home, the Muslim manuscripts had been either burnt or spread to other countries. Jews had been expelled from Spain. The multicultural society was destroyed, and so was the learning. Among the few things kept and respected in Spain were in music: harmony and stringed instruments, and of course the buildings, many of which became churches, by adding crosses. 16th century and 17th century. The Spanish Empire was the strongest in the world through most of the next two centuries, thanks to gold from the Americas. This new gold made rulers and colonial governors rich. Meanwhile others' savings became worth less due to inflation. Spain became a society of very rich and very poor. Some of the poorest went to the new colonies in the Caribbean, Central America and South America, mostly to find gold. Native American peoples were killed by diseases brought by the Spaniards, but most Spaniards did not know this. They found damaged and dying societies with people who had lost some of their most important leaders and thinkers. The Spaniards thought this meant they were inferior, and used this as an excuse to enslave the natives. Millions of natives died mining gold for the Spanish. The Spanish Empire also at this time funded the Spanish Inquisition which tortured and killed anyone who disagreed with the Roman Catholic Church. The Reformation which created Protestant sects in Europe was not allowed into Spain, it was kept out and, as with Jews or Muslims, its believers were killed. The nobles of Spain no longer had to fight anyone since the internal feuds were over. No one could challenge their power. In many ways it was held together as a reign of terror. People who challenged them were often called heretics, so that the Inquisition could torture them, and then nobles take the property. For ordinary people on both sides of the Atlantic Ocean, life got worse. A few rulers got rich. Today we would say that these people were guilty of war crimes, genocide and crimes against humanity. Many Church people who had the power to speak out at that time, did so, and they said many of the same things as we would say today. But none of this mattered much to the rulers. The great satire Don Quixote was written about this time. 18th century. In the 18th century, there was doubt over who should become king of Spain; this doubt led many of the kings of Europe to fight to become king of Spain. This was called the War of the Spanish Succession. France occupied Spain for a long time. This made Spain very weak. It also made Spain lose its empire in North and South America; all of the parts of that empire became their own countries, or were taken over by other countries such as the United States of America. 19th century. Spain was poor by the end of this time, and was invaded by Napoleon. Britain sent its own troops to defend Spain since it was so weak. This put first France, then Britain, in control of Spain for the rest of that century. Today Britain has strong ties to Spain from this time. 20th century. There was not much peace in Spain during the first part of the 20th century. Some Spaniards tried to set up a government chosen by the people (a democracy), and they made the King of Spain leave the country. However, in 1936, two different groups of Spaniards went to war over whether the government should be a democracy, or take orders from one person. In 1939, those who wanted democracy were defeated, and a dictator named Francisco Franco took over the government. Franco died in 1975. He had decided that Spain should have a king again, and he chose Juan Carlos, the grandson of the king who had been forced to leave the country, to be king. But the king did not rule as a dictator; instead, he chose to set up a democracy. Now Spain is a modern democratic country, and does business with many countries around the world. It is a part of the European Union.  
Height	Height is the distance between the lowest end and highest end of an object. For example, people consider the bottom of the foot a person's lowest end, and the top of the head a person's highest end. The distance between my lowest end--the bottom of my foot--and my highest end--the top of my head--measures out to 64 inches, so my height measures out to 64 inches too. "My height is 64 inches."  
Historian	A historian is someone who studies history.  
Human death	Human death is the end of sharable human personal experience - if anything happens to us after death, we are not able to clearly communicate it. Such rituals as a seance claim to be able to speak to the dead but this is not claimed to be very reliable, even by those who do them very often. What is our death? Death occurs to every life form and it means the mind, senses and body stopping. If there is some other part to life such as soul, that could continue without a body (afterlife), move into another body (reincarnation), or just go away. Religions have different beliefs about this issue. The medical view of the body is that it is like an animal body and in some ways like a machine. This is a powerful way to see the body because it lets it be "diagnosed" and sometimes "fixed". However this is part of a mechanistic paradigm with other effects - one of which is a refusal to admit that it may often be better to die than live. Modern healing protocols like palliative care allow for this, and for the idea of "dying healed" which would make no sense if one thinks of healing as only about cures. What happens after death? When human killing is the cause of a human death, usually family members or friends or the state (claiming to act on their behalf or that of others who might be next) seek what can be called revenge or harms reduction by locking-up or killing the human killer. Also, when animals kill humans, they too are almost always caught and killed. It is considered a very bad thing to let animals taste human flesh, or to have the experience of killing one. In any society, human death is surrounded by ritual - a wake or funeral is normal. In some places it was common to "eat" the dead in a form of ritual cannibalism. But this is no longer common, in part because disease like kuru can be passed this way. Human dead bodies are taboo in most societies and must be handled in special ways - for a combination of religious and hygiene reasons. A human dead body must always be reported in law, to be sure it is disposed of properly. There are always some consequences or requirements for dealing with a human death. Cover-ups. Hiding a human death is considered very bad - almost as bad as homicide itself. One of the reasons Slobodan Milosevic and Saddam Hussein are said to have committed crimes against humanity is mass graves that were found in Bosnia and Iraq, which contained many people who opposed them. Today some people continue to deny that Adolf Hitler killed millions of Jews, gypsies, homosexuals and political opponents in his death camps during World War II - this phenomenon is called Holocaust denial. Cover ups are frequent in the mafia and other organized crime. Probably the worst cases of mass death in living memory are the Rwanda genocide and The Killing Fields of Cambodia under the Khmer Rouge; each of killed approximately half of the population. Dealing with dead bodies and their property. Finding the cause of any human death, and stopping a similar death from happening to someone else, are the main reasons people look into "human morbidity", or let dead bodies be cut open and looked at in an autopsy. Some religions do not allow autopsies, because they feel the body is holy. Autopsies are usually required by the state if someone dies and people do not know why. The autopsy helps find out if someone killed the person on purpose, or tried to hurt them, or if they died from a sickness. To prepare for their own death, humans can write a last will and testament to be clear about who gets their property. A person will sometimes also volunteer to be an organ donor. This might mean giving the whole body to medical research. It can also save the lives of others by making organ transplants possible. Religious views of death. Ancient rulers sometimes did insist not only that their own bodies, and much property, but even their servants and relatives be destroyed at their funeral. In India this ritual still does sometimes occur. Old women sometimes carry guns in case their husband's relatives come to throw them on the funeral fire. Christianity has a special focus on death because of the state killing of Jesus Christ by the Romans. In Islam this is thought to demonstrate the injustice of human systems of dealing out death, and the ability of the best people to overcome it and even forgive it. In Christianity itself it is thought to prove that Jesus himself was really God and so could lose his body to show something and still have power. In Buddhism every being is thought to have this power, and reincarnation will occur until the being reaches enlightenment and can escape the wheel of life to reach Nirvana. Reincarnation is an idea taken from Hinduism of course. Confucianism advises filial piety and forms of ancestor worship to respect both dead and living ancestors, who created your body and taught you ethics. Rituals surrounding death. Every ethical tradition including the medical view of the body has some ritual surrounding death. Often these excuse behaviours that might be hated if they did not have the ritual. For instance, one may say that organ transplant is like cannibalism. Very much of what happens at a human death is ritual. People who wish theirs to be dealt with a certain way, and who wish a particular treatment like cremation of their body, should decide in advance and set up the necessary payments and agreements. This makes it much easier for their family after they die, since there is no longer the ability to clearly communicate the wish. For the same reason, saying goodbye is important. Most of the stress of death seems to come for loved ones who "did not have a chance to say goodbye". Maybe it is to relieve this stress that rituals are created, and to bring together those that knew someone so that the personal experience a person can no longer communicate for themselves, can be exchanged by others. Preparing for death. Because events leave living memory, and may only be part of oral tradition, there are projects to record everything that people remember about World War I and the Shoah. The first of these was to record everything remembered about the U.S. Civil War. This discipline has changed history since we have so many more first person accounts of the times, and made social history much more standard.  
Human body	The human body is the body of a person. It is the physical structure of a person. The body is a thing that can be hurt or killed. Its functions are stopped by death. Study of the human body. Some people study the human body. They look at where it is different from or the same as other animals' bodies. These animals can be alive today. Or they can be extinct animals like other hominids. (Hominids are primates that are close to humans. Neanderthals and "Homo erectus" were hominids.) Some people study how the human body works and lives in its environment. Some people study what people think about their body. Artists study how to draw or paint the human body.it has many senses which can let him fell pain or other things "Italic text"it is sometimes called as an animal body --82.55.233.13 (talk) 17:42, 16 October 2008 (UTC)teomagno The human body and other animals. Scientists think that the human body is very much like other animals. They see that some human "behaviors" are like animal behaviors. (Behaviors are the way an organism acts.) They know that 98% of the DNA in humans is the same as other primates. The animal that is alive now that is closest to humans is the chimpanzee. 98.4% of the DNA is the same between humans and chimpanzees.  
Hydrogen	Hydrogen is a chemical element. It is the simplest atom in the Universe. On a periodic table of the elements, hydrogen is on the top row, usually either on the left, on its own above the transition metals, or Above the Halogens. Its symbol in science is H. Scientists give atoms what they call an atomic number, and the number they have for hydrogen is 1. In its pure form hydrogen is most commonly found on Earth as a gas. Hydrogen is often found in water, but a water molecule is actually made up of one oxygen atom with two hydrogen atoms stuck on one side. Hydrogen is notable in that it is the fuel that powers the Sun and other stars. Pure hydrogen, though, is normally found in groups of two atoms. Scientists call this diatomic. Hydrogen will have a chemical reaction when mixed with most other elements. It has no color nor smell. However, hydrogen is very uncommon in the Earth's atmosphere. It is mostly found in water (where it is combined with oxygen) and in all organic compounds and living things. Hydrocarbons, like fossil fuels, are compounds where hydrogen is combined with carbon. The name "hydrogen" comes from the Greek word for water, 'υδορ (pronounced /HEEW-dor/). Hydrogen has two different isotopes which are heavier types of the Hydrogen atom, they are called: deuterium and tritium. These other types of Hydrogen are important in nuclear energy. Hydrogen as fuel (fusion). Scientists believe atoms are made of protons, neutrons and electrons. From a physics point of view, hydrogen has one proton, and its variants (atoms that are very like hydrogen), deuterium and tritium, also have neutrons. Nuclear fusion is a very powerful source of energy. It relies on forcing atoms together to make helium and energy, exactly as happens in a star like the Sun, or in a hydrogen bomb. This needs a large amount of energy to get started, and is not easy to do yet. A big advantage over nuclear fission, which is used in nuclear power stations, is that no waste is produced, and no toxic fuel like uranium is needed. There is a lot of deuterium in seawater. There is more than 600 million tons of hydrogen undergoing fusion every second on the sun. Burning Hydrogen. 1. Water can be easily broken down into hydrogen and oxygen with electricity, but it takes a lot of electricity to get a usable amount of hydrogen. 2. Burning hydrogen combines with oxygen molecules to make steam (pure water). 3. A fuel cell combines hydrogen through a catalyst with an oxygen molecule releasing an electron as electricity. Hydrogen power grid. For these reasons, many people believe hydrogen power will eventually replace technologies such as diesel-electric engines and biodiesel fuel. But it is not correct to see hydrogen as a fuel if it is used in a fuel cell. It is more of a replacement for the power grid. Such a grid and infrastructure with new vehicles might be first made in Iceland, a country that has much free geothermal energy and is quite small. Because it imports all fossil fuel, it would help Iceland to completely stop using it. The huge advantage of hydrogen is that when burnt in an engine or in a fuel cell, there is no pollution - just a small amount of water. It's a pain to store, though - it has to be kept under high pressure - and cooled as well. For vehicles, it seems more realistic to use liquid fuels, at least at present. If we did move to a hydrogen economy where could the hydrogen come from? Well, there are many places - it can be extracted from water (but this of course will use more energy than you would get back by using it in a fuel cell or an engine). It can be extracted from various types of plant material - corn is possible, though pretty inefficient. Generally it is probably better to refine such material into a more conventional fuel like ethanol.  
Helium	Helium is a chemical element. It has the chemical symbol He and atomic number 2. Helium is called a noble gas, because it does not regularly mix with other chemicals and form new compounds. It has the lowest boiling point of all the elements. It is the second most common element in the universe, after hydrogen, and has no color or smell. Helium does not usually react with anything else. However, it can react with tungsten, iodine, fluorine, sulfur and phosphorus under very special conditions. Pierre Janssen and Norman Lockyer found helium in 1868. They found that it was in the Sun before it was found on Earth. Because of where it was found, its name comes from the Greek word for Sun, "helios". It is used to fill balloons and airships because it is lighter than air, and does not burn or react, meaning it is normally safe for using it in that way. It is also used in some kinds of light bulbs. People also breathe it in to make their voices sound higher than they normally do as a joke, but this is extremely dangerous if they breath in too much, since it can kill them, since they are not breathing normal air. Breathing too much helium can also cause long-term effects to vocal cords.  
Home page	The home page of a web site is the document that a web server sends to another computer's web browser application when it has been contacted without a request for specific information. That is, when you enter only a domain name in the Address box without specifying a directory or a file, the "home page" is usually the first part of the web site you will be taken to. The Home Page is also called the Main Page. A properly written home page will tell a user about the information available in the web site, and how to view different parts of the web site. The home page of "simple.wikipedia.org" can be found at this link. Home Page was a popular computer application used for composing web pages.  
Hair	Hair is something that grows from the skin of mammals. The hair of non-human animals is usually called fur. Having no hair is called baldness. Humans and some other animals have lost much of their hair through evolution, and some animals, such as the elephant and the whale, have almost none at all. Human hair. In humans, hair grows mostly on the head, and the amount of body hair is different from race to race. Asians and native North Americans have the least amount of body hair, while Caucasians tend to have the most. Hair commonly turns white as people age. History and culture. People have been interested in head hair for hundreds of thousands of years. For both men and women, styling and coloring of hair have been a way to show importance and prestige. Sometimes society makes rules to control the amount of hair, for example by not allowing people to cut their hair or beards. Hair loss. People have about 100,000 strands of hair on their head. About 100 fall out each day, but they usually grow back. Men often lose some of their hair as they grow older. This is known as "baldness", and doctors call it "male pattern baldness". Its name comes from the fact that hair loss almost always follows the same pattern. It begins by hair falling out first from the front and sides of the head, and thinning from the top of the head, usually until it is all gone. After a while, all that may be left is a fringe of hair running above the ears and around the lower back of the head. Even though it is unusual for women to go bald, many women suffer from thinning hair as they grow old, and the pattern of thinning is the same as it is for men. People have tried to find cures for hair loss for thousands of years. In an effort to get their hair back, men have tried "cures" like applying strange lotions or even having their heads packed in chicken manure. It is only in the last decade or so that treatments have been developed which do sometimes work. Some doctors do hair transplants, where they take tiny plugs of hair from areas like the back of the neck and plant them in the bald spots on the head. Some drugs will cause hair to grow, but this hair is very delicate and will fall out in a short time if the drug is stopped.  
Ireland	Ireland is an island of Europe off the west coast of the European mainland. To the west of Ireland is the Atlantic Ocean; to the east of Ireland, across the Irish Sea, is the island of Great Britain. The island of Ireland, called "Éire" ("Ae-ra") in the Irish language, is about long and about wide. Six million people live in Ireland. The River Shannon, which runs from north to south, is the longest river. Ireland has many lakes (or Loughs). Lough Neagh, in Northern Ireland, is the largest lake in Ireland, or the British Isles. Ireland is known for its beautiful landscapes, history, and mythology. The capital of the Republic of Ireland is called Dublin. It is in the east of the country and built on the river Liffey. More than one million people live in Dublin.  
Internet	The Internet is a worldwide network of interconnected computer networks that transmit data by packet switching using the standard Internet Protocol (IP). It is a "network of networks" that consists of millions of smaller domestic, academic, business, and government networks, which together carry various information and services, such as electronic mail, online chat, file transfer, and the interlinked Web pages and other documents of the World Wide Web. History. The Internet was created in the United States in 1969 by the "United States Department of Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency" (known as "ARPA"). The World Wide Web was created at CERN in Switzerland in the 1990s by a British (UK) man named Tim Berners-Lee. Today, people can pay a fee to access the Internet from Internet Service Providers. Some services on the Internet cost nothing to use. Sometimes the people who run these free services use advertising to make money from them. The alternative name, "Net" came from "inter(net)". Services on the Internet. The Internet is used for many things, such as electronic mail (e-mail), online chat, and the World Wide Web. The most used service on the Internet is the World Wide Web (which is also called the "Web"). The Web contains websites, blogs, and also wikis - including Wikipedia. Webpages on the Web can be seen and read by anyone (unless the page needs a password, or it is blocked). The second major use of the Internet is to send and receive e-mail. E-mail is private and goes from one user to another. Instant messaging (such as AIM or ICQ) is similar to email, but allows two or more people to chat to each other much quicker. Some governments consider the Internet to be a bad thing, and block some or part of it. For example, the Chinese government think that Wikipedia is bad, so often no one in China can read it or add to it. Some parents block parts of the Internet they think are bad for children to see. Dangers on the Internet. The Internet can also be a dangerous place. Information people put on the Internet is not  
Italy	Italy is a country in western Europe and a member of the European Union. Its official name is The Italian Republic'". Italy is a democratic republic and a developed country. It is a founding member of the European Union. Italy is also a member of the G8, with the 7th largest Gross Domestic Product in the world. Its president is Giorgio Napolitano. Before 1861, it was made up of small city sates. Geography. Italy is a peninsula, meaning it is surrounded by the sea on all sides apart from one (its north side). Northern Italy is separated from France, Switzerland, and Austria by the Alps, a chain of mountains. Mont Blanc ("Monte Bianco" in Italian), the tallest mountain in Europe, belongs to this chain. The second important chain of mountains in Italy is the Apennines ("Appennini" in Italian), which are in central and southern Italy. The capital of Italy is Rome. Other important cities in Italy are Milan, Turin, Florence, Naples, and Venice. The country includes a number of islands, the biggest of which are Sicily and Sardinia, which are reached by ship or aircraft. Po River is the longest river in Italy. The Tiber River runs through the city of Rome. Northern Italy has some of the biggest lakes in the country, such as Lake Garda, Lake Como, Lake Maggiore and Lake Iseo. Because it is surrounded by the sea, Italy has many kilometers of coast, which brings tourists from around the world. Tourists also come to see Italy's many historical places. Italy includes in its territories two very small independent states, San Marino and the Vatican City. People and culture. People from Italy are called Italians. Most Italians are Christian, and most of the Christians are Roman Catholics. The population of Italy is about 58.5 million. About 2.5 million of these live in Rome, and 1.5 million in Milan. The official language of Italy is Italian and in some area German or French. People also speak languages such as "Sicilian" and "Sardinian", which are similar to Italian, but are different languages, or, dialects. The people of Italy are the descendants of the ancient Romans. Latin was one of the first languages of Italy. After the United States and many other countries in the world, Italy has the largest illegal immigrant problem in the world. Italy is home to more World Heritage sites than any other nation in the world. These sites are properties forming part of the cultural and natural heritage which the World Heritage Committee considers as having outstanding universal value. Aproximately 60% of the works of art of the world is concentrated in Italy. Italy makes more wine than any other country. Italy is famous for their Italian Wine, Pizza, fettucine, pasta, linguine, pepperoni, salami, varieties of cheese and Spaghetti. Regions. Italy is divided into 20 Regions ("Regioni" in Italian) and every Region is divided into Provinces. Politics. The Head of State is Giorgio Napolitano, whose task began in May 2006 and will end in May 2013 (the President of the Republic remains for 7 years). Napolitano is the eleventh President of the Italian Republic and he was preceded by Carlo Azeglio Ciampi. The first president was Enrico De Nicola. The Head of Government is Silvio Berlusconi, leader of a right-wing coalition, since 2008, when he defeated the left-wing coalition of Walter Veltroni. Italy was one of the first members of the European Union and in 2002, along with 11 other European countries, it changed to using the euro as its official currency. Before this, the Italian Lira had been used, from 1881. If you want to become President of Italy, you must have Italian citzsenship, you must be at least 50 years old, and you must not be barred from holding political and civil rights. History. Before 1861, Italy did not exist as a state, because its territory was divided into several independent states, often under foreign domination (by countries such as Austria, France, and Spain). From the 1850s, in Piedmont, a free Italian state, the Earl of Cavour had the idea of defeating the Austrian domination in Lombardy and Veneto to create a Northern Italian state. This happened, but other Central and Southern Italian states also decided to join Piedmont to create a bigger state. Particularly, in 1860, Garibaldi's mission in Southern Italy succeeded in conquering the Kingdom of Sicily, and the Kingdom of Italy was created. Vittorio Emanuele II was crowned King of Italy. But in 1861, Latium and Veneto were still not part of Italy, because they were under the power of the Pope and of the Austrian Emperor. Veneto was added to Italy in 1866, after a war against Austria, and Latium along with Rome was conquered by the Italian troops in 1870, when they entered the Pontifical State and declared the end of the temporal power of the Pope. The Pope, angry at this usurpation, declared himself prisoner in the Italian State, preventing Catholic people from participating in political life. Finally, in 1870, the Italian state was complete. Italy participated in World War I as an ally of Great Britain, France, and Russia against the Central Powers. The war was wholly fought on the Eastern border, near Austria. After the 'Caporetto defeat', it seemed that the war would be lost, but in 1918 the Central Powers surrendered, and Italy gained the Trentino-South Tyrol, which once belonged to Austria, though inhabited by Italian people. 1922 saw the rise of a new Italian movement, led by Benito Mussolini, leader of Fascism in Italy. He became Head of Government and dictator, calling himself 'duce'. He began a friendship with the German dictator Hitler and followed him into World War II. Italy entered war only in 1940 as an ally of Germany against France, Great Britain and Russia. During the war Italy controlled most of the Mediterranean sea, called in those years by Mussolini the Italian Mare Nostrum. On July 25, 1943, Mussolini was deposed by the Great Council of Fascism and on September 8, 1943, Badoglio declared that the war as an ally of Germany was ended. Italy started fighting as an ally of France and the UK, but Italian troops, due to the confusion deriving from the change, did not know who to shoot at. In Northern Italy a movement called Resistenza started to fight against the German invaders. Mussolini tried to create another Northern Italian fascist state, the Republic of Salò, but it had no success. On April 25, 1945, Italy became free. The state became a republic on June 2, 1946, after a referendum in which for the first time women could vote. Italian people decided to put down the Savoia dynasty, who had been reigning since the beginning the state, in favour of a republican government. Transportation. The railway network in Italy totals 16,627 kilometres (10,331 mi). Italy is ranked 17th in the world. High speed trains include ETR-class trains which travels at 300 km/h (190 mph).  
If	If is a word to describe a statement where one thing depends on something else. "If —" is a poem written by Rudyard Kipling. It appeared in the "Brother Square Toes" chapter of Kipling's book "Rewards and Fairies". In a 1995 BBC opinion poll, it was voted Britain's favourite poem. It is arguably Kipling's most famous poem.  
Island	An island is a piece of ground that is surrounded by water. Water is all around an island. Islands are smaller than continents. The largest island in the world is Greenland, unless Australia is believed to be an island. Some islands are their own countries. Examples of islands that are their own countries include Cuba, Iceland, and Madagascar. There are many others. Other islands have many countries, for example Borneo and Hispaniola.  
Immigrant	Immigrants are people who move to another country or region than their own to live there. "Immigrant" and "emmigrant" do not mean the same thing. An "immigrant" is a person that leaves his or her own country or region and an "emmigrant" is a person that comes from other country or region. The phrases "many people emigrated from Europe in the 19th century to America" and "many people immigrated to America from Europe in the 19th century" have the same meaning.  
Interim	Interim means "in between" or "transitional" (moving from one time or place to another), or "temporary."  
Idiom	An idiom is a word or phrase which means something different from what it says - it is usually a metaphor. Idioms are common phrases or terms whose meanings are not literal, but are figurative and only known through their common use. Because idioms can mean something different from what the words mean it is difficult for someone not very good at speaking the language to use them properly. Some idioms are only used by some groups of people or at certain times. The idiom "break a leg", means "good luck" to an actor about to start acting, but not to other people. Idioms are not the same thing as slang. Idioms are made of normal words that have a special meaning known by almost everyone. Slang is usually special words that are known only by a particular group. To learn a language a person needs to learn the words in that language, and how and when to use them. But people also need to learn idioms separately because certain words together or at certain times can have different meanings. In order to understand an idiom, one sometimes needs to know the culture the idiom comes from. To know the history of an idiom can be useful and interesting, but is not necessary to be able to use the idiom properly. For example most native British English speakers know that "No room to swing a cat" means "there was not a lot of space" and can use the idiom properly, but few know it is because 200 years ago sailors were punished by being whipped with a whip called a "cat o'nine tails". A big space was cleared on the ship so that the person doing the whipping had a lot of room to "swing the cat". Addendum. A better understanding of an idiom is that it is a phrase whose meaning cannot be understood from the dictionary definitions of each word taken separately. In this case, a metaphor is not an idiom. The meaning of the saying "pay through the nose" or "run like the wind" can be understood by looking the words up in a dictionary and using some common sense and imagination and the context of the phrase. In each of the above cases, to a language learner, the meaning of the phrases cannot be understood from the dictionary definitions of the words, nor from the context in which they are used.  
IELTS	The International English Language Testing System (IELTS) tests how good you are at English language. People who take the test take the Academic Module or the General Training Module. The academic one is for people who want to go to university. The general one is for people who want to do other training or want to get work experience. People who want to emigrate to a country that uses English also take the general one. Most universities in Australia, Britain, Canada, New Zealand and the United States accept the IELTS. Many professional companies do as well. See also: International English  
Ink	Ink is a liquid that we use to write, draw, print, or make marks. The word ink is from Latin and means "colored water". Ink is used in pens, in some computer printers, and in printing presses. In some countries, people write by using ink and brushes. People usually write or print using black ink, but ink can be any color. The first ink was used in Egypt and China about 2600 BC. A disadvantage of many kinds of ink is that they may smudge when wet, spoiling the picture or writing. The first inks were carbon inks, made from soot, which is 80% carbon. Later, in Europe, people used iron gall ink. This is the kind of ink Johann Sebastian Bach and Leonardo da Vinci used. Ink in a ball point pen is held in a thin long cylinder (tube) inside the pen. The ink does not fall out of the cylinder as it sticks to the sides of the tube.  
Indian	The word Indian means from or about the country of the modern Republic of India or Bharat. It refers to a person from India. Many different languages are used in India, so there is no one language called "Indian". Some languages of India are Gujarati, Hindi, Urdu, Sanskrit, Bengali, Kannada, Tamil, and Telugu. The word Indian is also sometimes used for the people who were in North America, Central America, South America, and the islands of the Caribbean Sea when the Europeans first came there. The Europeans made a mistake and thought they were going to India, so they called the people "Indians". Other names for these people are American Indians, First Nations, and Native Americans.  
Inch	The inch is the basic unit of length or distance in the English system. A man's thumb is about an inch wide. The abbreviation for "inch" is "in" or " (double quote). In the United States, people use inches more than they use millimeters or centimeters. Other U.S. customary units of measurement are also in common use. In the United Kingdom, road signs for speed limits are in miles per hour. In the rest of the world, metric units are almost always used. The inch is not used when referring to science.  
Pint	The pint is the name of a unit of liquid measurement in some countries. The pint is defined as of a gallon. Because the imperial system and the American system use different gallons, their pints are different also. The imperial pint is still used to measure beer in the countries of the old British Empire. It is usually not used today for anything else. It is divided into 20 fluid ounces. The United States is the only other country to use pints. In the American system there are two pints. There is a wet pint and a dry pint. Six U.S. wet pints are about five imperial pints. The U.S. wet pint is divided into 16 fluid ounces.  
ISO 19011	ISO 19011 is the new global accounting standard, replacing accounting standards that were part of ISO 14001 and ISO 9001. It is the most likely basis for accounting reform which could put an end to accounting scandals.  
India	India is a country in Asia. The official English name of the country is Republic of India. Some people also call the country Hindustan or Bharat. (The list of the 21 other official names can be found here). India has more than 1.12 billion (1,120,000,000) people, which is more than any other country in the world except China. Excluding the disputed territory of Jammu and Kashmir, the Republic of India also has a land area of 2,957,429 km² (1,183,610 square miles). This includes the states of Sikkim and Arunachal Pradesh. This means that it is bigger than Argentina but smaller than Australia. It is the seventh (7th) largest sized country in the world in amount of land. India is the largest democracy in the world. The capital of India is New Delhi and India has the third largest army in the world with nuclear weapons. Although India is a growing economy, it has high levels of poverty, illiteracy and malnutrition. India has a higher rate of malnutrition among children under the age of three (46% in year 2007) than any other country in the world. Languages. The languages spoken by the most people in India are English and Hindi. Many people have looked at the diversity of languages and cultures found on the Indian subcontinent. The only other geographical place they found to be more diverse with regards to languages and cultures was the African continent. There are two main language families in India, the Indo-Aryan and the Dravidian languages. About 74% of the people speak an Indo-Arayan language, about 24% speak a Dravidian language. Other languages spoken in India come from the Austro-Asiatic and Tibeto-Burman language families. Hindi is the language in India with the largest number of speakers. It is the official language of the union. English is also used, mostly for business and in the administration. It has the status of a 'subsidiary official language.' The constitution also recognises in particular 21 other languages. For these there are either many people speaking them, or they have been recognised to be very important for Indian culture. The number of dialects in India is as high as 1,652. In the south of India, many people speak Kannada, Telugu, Tamil and Malayalam. In the north, many people speak Chhattisgarhi, Punjabi, Bengali, Gujarati, and Marathi, Oriya, and Bihari. History. The first people in India lived 9000 years ago; these people were the ones who made up the Indus Valley Civilization, which is one of the oldest civilizations on Earth. After that, the Vedic period came. This is the country where two main Classical languages of the world wereborn - Sanskrit and Tamil. Both these languages are more than 3000 years old. In these, Tamil is one of the oldest languages existing in the world. The country founded a religion called Hinduism, which most Indians still follow. Later, a king called Ashoka built an empire called the Maurya dynasty in 300 BC. It made most of South Asia into one unified country. From 180 BC, many other countries invaded India. Even later (100 BC - AD 1100), other Indian dynasties (empires) came, including the Chalukyas, Cholas, Pallavas, and Pandyas. In South India at that time, science, art, and writing were very good and famous. Many dynasties ruled India around the year 1000. Some of these were the Mughal, Vijayanagara, and the Maratha empires. In the 1600s, European countries invaded India, and the British took control of most of India by 1856. In the beginning of the 1900s, millions of people peacefully started to protest (not obey British rule). One of the people who were leading the freedom movement was Mahatma Gandhi, who only used peaceful tactics, including a way called "ahisma", which means "non-violence". On August 15, 1947, India peacefully got free from the British Empire. India's constitution was founded on January 26, 1950. The first official leader (Prime Minister) of India was Jawaharlal Nehru. After 1947, India has become a powerful country. It is one of the nations that founded the Non-Aligned Movement and the United Nations (when it was being ruled by Britain). It has fought and won many wars, including ones in 1947, 1962, 1965, 1971, and 1999. India has also done nuclear tests in 1974 and 1998, and it is one of the few countries that has a nuclear bomb. Since 1991, India has been one of the fastest-growing economies in the world. Government. India is the largest democracy in the world. Its government is divided into three branches: the Legislative (the one that makes the laws, the parliament), the Executive (the government), and the Judiciary (the one that makes sure that the laws are obeyed, the supreme court). The Legislative branch is made up of the Parliament of India, which is located in New Delhi, the capital of India. The parliament of India is divided into two groups: the upper house, Rajya Sabha (Council of States); and the lower house, Lok Sabha (House of People). The Rajya Sabha has 250 members, and the Lok Sabha has 545 members. The Executive branch is made up of the President, Vice President, Prime Minister, and the Council of Ministers. The President of India is elected for five years. The President has the ability to choose the Prime Minister, who has most of the power. The Council of Ministers, such as the Minister of Defence, are helpers to the Prime Minister. The Judicial branch is made up of the courts of India, including the Supreme Court. The Chief Justice of India is the head of the Supreme Court. The Supreme Court has the power to stop a law being passed by Parliament if it sees that the law is illegal and contradicts (opposes) the Constitution of India. In India, there are also twenty-one High Courts. Indian states. India has twenty-eight states not including the capital New Delhi and seven union territories (which are different from states). Delhi and Goa have state status. Geography and Climate. India is the seventh-largest country in the world. It is the main part of the Indian subcontinent. The countries which are next to India are Pakistan, Bangladesh, Myanmar, China, Bhutan, and Nepal. It is also near Sri Lanka, an island country. India is a peninsula, which means that it is surrounded on three sides by water. In the west is the Arabian Sea, in the south is the Indian Ocean, and in the east is the Bay of Bengal. The northern part of India has many mountains. The most famous mountains in India are the Himalayas, which have some of the tallest mountains in the world. There are many rivers in India. The main rivers are the Ganges, the Brahmaputra, the Yamuna, the Godavari, the Kaveri, the Narmada, and the Krishna. It mainly has a tropical climate in the south, which means it can get very hot in summer and cool in winter. The northern part, though, has a cooler climate, called sub-tropical, and even alpine in the region of the mountains. The Himalayas, part of the alpine climate, can get extremely cold. There is very heavy rainfall along the west coast and in the Eastern Himalayan foothills. The west, though, is drier. Because of some of the deserts of India, all of India gets rain for four months of the year called the monsoon. That is so because the deserts attract water-filled winds from the Indian Ocean, which give rain when they come into India. When the monsoon rains come late or not so heavily, droughts (when the land wears out because there is less rain) are possible. Economy. Presently, the economy of the country is growing. The economy of India is the 12th largest in the world with a GDP of $568 billion (U.S.). In terms of PPP (how much that money can buy in India compared to other countries), the economy is fourth largest (worth $3.319 trillion U.S.). The growth rate is 9.0%. However, that is still only $3100 (considering PPP) per person per year. India's economy is diverse. Major industries include automobiles, cement, chemicals, consumer electronics, food processing, machinery, mining, petroleum, pharmaceuticals, steel, transportation equipment, and textiles. However despite economic growth, India suffers from poverty. 27.5% of the population was living below the poverty line in 2004–2005. The spread of wealth in India is not equal. 1/4 of the population earns less than $0.40/day. People. There are about 1 billion (1,00,000,000) people living in India. So, India is the second largest country by the amount of people living in it. Experts think that by the year 2030, India will be the first. About 70% of Indians live in farms. The largest cities in India are Mumbai, Kolkata, Delhi, Chennai, Bangalore, Hyderabad, and Ahmedabad. India has twenty-three (23) official languages. Altogether, there are 1,625 languages that are spoken in India. The religion Hinduism is followed by 80.1% of India; Islam - 13.3%; Christianity - 2.3%; Sikhism - 1.8%; Buddhism - 1.5%; Jainism - 0.4%; and many others.  
Insult	An insult is a description of someone that will offend them. It may or may not be true, but it is called "derogatory" language. Terms like foolish, stupid, idiot moron and grow a pair are insults, because they suggest that a person's mind is not quick or smart. Insulting one's mother directly is a serious insult in many cultures. Ritual insults are part of many cultures, mainly in sports and military training. They are also very common in jargons - for example, most references to newbies in net jargon are insults. One should be very careful when using unfamiliar terms for others. Reason. Usually to make the insulter feel like they are superior to the insulted because they feel inferior for some reason.  
Immunology	Immunology is the study of the immune system. Immune systems are biological systems that organisms use to prevent invasion and parasitism by other organisms. The simplest form of it is the DNA restriction system evolved in bacteria to prevent infection by bacteriophages. Usually, Immunology is taken to mean the study of mammalian immune systems, which are much more complex, and also prone to much error. Innate immunity. There are two broad, artificial subdivisions of mammalian immune systems: the innate (or natural) and the acquired (or adaptive). The innate immune system is usually meant to encompass cells and systems in the mammalian immune system that does not require previous exposure to a particular pathogen for function. Study of these focuses often on errors of the immune system, which often cause more damage than what they are detecting and reacting to. In effect, the immune system is what decides "what is part of this body" by ignoring its intervention. Some infections, like HIV exploit the limits or weaknesses of the human immune system very effectively and able to make themselves part of the body. Artificial means are often used to restore immune system function in an HIV-challenged body, and prevent the onset of AIDS. This is one of the most complex issues in immunology as it involves literally every level of that system. This research during the 1980s and 1990s radically changed the view of the human immune system and its functions and integration in the human body. Acquired immune response. The acquired immune system encompasses cells and systems that require previous exposure, and explains the somewhat unique ability of the mammalian immune system to 'remember' previous infections and mount a rapid and robust reaction to secondary infections. This immunological memory is due to the biology of T-cells and B-cells. Herd immunity for instance is acquired by organisms living close together sharing minor infections all the time. Vaccines boost the acquired immune system by offering weak forms of infection that the body can fight off and remember how to do so - when a stronger infection arises the body thus fights it off readily. The distribution of vaccines and other immune system affecting cures can be considered another level of acquired immune system, one governed by access to vaccination and medicine in general. The intersection of this with the spread of disease (as studied in epidemiology) is part of the field of public health. Integrated immune response. The natural or innate immune system of the human body is linked very deeply and directly to the nervous system and sensory system, a link first explored by studies on epilepsy. An epileptic attack is actually an immune system reaction triggered by a purely sensory or nervous input, like a strobe light. There are also studies of long term HIV survivors which suggest very strongly that psychology is a key healing factor and that it is quite possible to survive long term with very low immune system function if one avoids major psychological stress and stays quite calm and optimistic regardless of news. This might be because of the immune system's tendency to panic under conditions of high stress, to the detriment of the organism, sometimes attacking it from the inside. Because of these issues, a view is evolving of a single system that responds cognitively to perception, physiologically with pain via nerves, and immunologically with the more chemical elements of the immune system that float free in the human bloodstream. The study of this system is psychoneuroimmunology. The immune system protects the body.  
Infinity	Infinity, also written formula_1, is larger than any number that can possibly be imagined. The term is from a Latin word meaning "without end". Infinity is really not a number, but it is sometimes used as one. Numbers can be counted, but infinity cannot be counted. Now, people are proposing that infinity is just an abstract concept. Infinity can be broken up in two different kinds; potential and actual infinity. Potential infinity is a process that never stops. For example, adding 10 to a number. No matter how many times 10 is added, 10 more can still be added. Actual infinity is something that we cannot imagine or put a value on in our system of concepts.  
January	January is the first month of the year in the Julian and Gregorian calendars. It has 31 days. January is named for Janus, the Roman god of doors and gateways. January and February were put on the calendar after all the other months. This is because in the original Roman calendar, Winter did not have months. Although March was originally the first month, January became the new first month because that was when people chose the new consuls (Roman leaders). January's flower is the Carnation with its birthstone being the Garnet. The meaning of the Garnet is Constancy. The first day of January is called New Year's Day. In some countries it has the name of the Saint Sylvester.  
June	June is the sixth month of the year; it has 30 days. June is named for the Roman goddess Juno, the wife of Jupiter, and she is goddess of marriage, so getting married in June was thought to be lucky. June begins on a different day of the week each year. June's flower is the Rose and the birthstone is the pearl. The meaning for the birthstone pearl is health.  
July	July is the seventh month of the year with 31 days. July was named after Julius Caesar. July begins on the same day of the week as April every year and also January in leap years. July's flower is the water lily. July's birthstone is the ruby. The meaning for the birthstone Ruby is Contented Mind.  
Japan	Japan (日本) is a country in Asia. It has many islands. Four of them are large, and the biggest is one of the largest islands in the world. The islands are on the east Asian coast in the western part of the Pacific Ocean. Japanese people call their country "Nihon" or "Nippon", which in Japanese means "the origin of the sun". It is not actually the origin of the sun. History. The earliest records on Japan are from Chinese history. One of those records said there were many small countries which had wars between them and later a country, ruled by a queen, became the strongest and peace came. Japan began to write its own history after the 5th and 6th centuries, when people from Korea and China taught Japan about the Chinese writing system. Japan's neighbours also showed them the ways of Buddhism. The Japanese changed Buddhism in many ways, for example, by building strongly on ideas such as Zen, which came from mainland Asia. In the ancient and the Middle Ages, China gave Japan lots of new cultural ideas, but their friendship became weaker later. In the late 13th century, Mongolians from China tried to invade Japan twice, but they could not. The samurai and shogun of Medieval Japan are similar to knights and lords in Medieval Europe. Japan had contact with the Europeans for a little while in the 16th century. The Portuguese were the first Europeans to visit Japan. Later, the Spanish, English and Dutch came to Japan to trade. Also, they brought Christianity. Japan's leaders welcomed them originally, but the Europeans conquered many places in the world, and the Japanese were scared they would conquer Japan too. So the Japanese did not let the Europeans come into Japan anymore, except in a small area in Nagasaki city. Only Chinese, Korean and Dutch people were allowed to visit Japan, in the end, and they were under careful control of the Japanese government. Japan was opened again in 1854 by Matthew Perry, when the Americans wanted to use Japanese ports for American whale boats. This new contact with Europeans and Americans changed the Japanese culture. The Meiji Restoration of 1868 stopped some old ways and added many new ones. The Empire of Japan was created, and it became a very powerful nation and tried to invade the countries next to it. It invaded and annexed Ryukyu Kingdom, Taiwan, and Korea. It had wars with China and Russia: the First Sino-Japanese War, the Russo-Japanese War, and the Second Sino-Japanese War, which grew to become a part of World War 2). Japanese troops did many bad things in East Asia, for example: the Nanking massacre (killing a lot of people), biological attacks of Unit 731 (killing people with chemicals and other deadly things). In 1941, Japan attacked Pearl Harbor in Hawaii, a naval base of the United States and destroyed or damaged many ships and airplanes. This started the United States' involvement in World War 2. American and Japanese forces fought each other in the Pacific. Once airbases were established within range of the Japanese mainland America began to win, and started dropping bombs on Japanese cities. America had full access to bomb most of the important cities and quickly brought Japan close to defeat. Because the Japanese refused to surrender, the United States dropped two atomic bombs on the cities of Hiroshima and Nagasaki, killing 130,000 Japanese citizens in just a few seconds. Soon after this the Soviet Union began to fight against Japan and the Japanese army in Manchuria lost. Japan surrendered and gave up all the places it took from other countries, accepting the Potsdam Proclamation. The United States occupied Japan and forced it to write a new constitution, in which they promised to never go to war again. Japan was hurt very much after the widespread bombing campaigns and the atomic bombs, but soon it grew strong again. They did not try to make a strong military, but a strong economy. Because of this, they became very wealthy. The United States put their military bases in Japan, including Okinawa. Although America helps protect Japan, some people living near the bases do not like the soldiers being there because of serious problems the soldiers sometimes make. Geography. Japan is a group of islands in the Western Pacific, off the coast of China. The four biggest islands are Honshu, Hokkaido, Shikoku, and Kyushu, and there are about 3,000 smaller islands there. Japan is separated from the Asian continent by the Sea of Japan and the East China Sea. Honshu, which means 'Mainland' in Japanese language is the biggest island. Hokkaido is the island north of Honshu. Kyushu is the island west of Honshu. Shikoku is the island to the south-west of Honshu. In the middle of Japan there are mountains. Most of mountains are volcanoes. Japan has many earthquakes. The recent big earthquake happened in 1995 near to Kobe. It was really bad. 90% of the people living in Japan only live in 10% of the land, near the coast. The other 10% of the people in Japan live away from the coast. Over 10 cities have over a million people in them. The biggest city in Japan is Tokyo, which is the capital. Territorial problem. Japan has 3 problems about territory. Transportation. Important international airports in Japan are Narita, serving as Tokyo's major airport and Kansai International Airport near Osaka, serving as the main airport for the Kansai region. For moving around in Japan, airplanes, trains and buses are mainly used for the public transportation. The Shinkansen is one of the fastest trains in the world and connects most of the biggest cities in Honshu and Kyushu. Subdivisons. Japan is divided into 47 prefectures.  
Jargon	Jargon is a special way to use words that are shared only by a certain group of people. They do not mean what the dictionary says they mean. They have different meanings to the people using them than their everyday meaning. For example, the ordinary words boot, net, and web also have special meanings for users of computers, the Internet, and the World Wide Web. These, and to flame, to ping and many acronyms are part of net jargon. An "acronym" means that only some of the letters in the word or phrase are used. Often this is the first letter of each word. Other acronyms found online are simply common shorthand. See list of slang words. Usually, more jargon is created over time. Jargon is also common in the military. It includes phrases like SNAFU. Jargon can be used by a clique to prevent others from joining or understanding, but it also is often just used because it is shorter.  
Jesus	Jesus (born between 7 and 4 BC in Bethlehem, died in 30, 31, or 33 AD in Jerusalem) was the man whose life and teachings started the Christian religion. He was a Jew and came from a town called Nazareth in Galilee, in the country that is today called Israel. The name "Jesus" comes from the Aramaic name "Yeshua", from Hebrew "Yehovah-shua", meaning "God saves" which was a popular name of the time. Jesus is often called "Jesus Christ" or "Christ". The word "Christ" comes from the Greek word "christos" and means "the one marked on the head with oil" or "the anointed one". In Jesus' country, anointing was done to show that a person was chosen to be a king or a leader. Jesus is also called "Messiah", which comes from the Hebrew term "Moshiach", and also means "the anointed one." Stories about the life of Jesus have been recorded by different writers. The best known are four books called the Gospels. They form the New Testament, a part of the Bible. Gospel means "Good News." The "Gospels" were written by people who followed Jesus and believed in him. They tell a little about his birth, and mostly about his adult life: his teachings, ministry and death. There are four "Gospels", called "the Gospel of Mark", "the Gospel of Matthew", "the Gospel of Luke", and "the Gospel of John". Several Jewish and Roman historians such as Flavius Josephus, Tacitus, Pliny the Younger and Suetonius also mention Jesus in their writings. They usually only mention his execution or problems between the Roman Government and his followers; they do not talk about his life. Most Christians remember the day that Jesus was born as the holiday of Christmas. Although the Gospels do not say what day Jesus was born, Early Christians living in Rome chose 25th December because there was already a Roman holiday on that day. They also celebrate the time that the Gospels say he died and was raised from the dead as the holiday of Easter. Jesus in the Bible. This section is about the birth, ministry and death of Jesus. It is taken from the four books of the Bible, called the Gospels of Matthew, Mark, Luke and John. They were written in the 1st century AD. Nearly all other writing about Jesus is based on these four books. Jesus' birth. The Gospels of Matthew and Luke say that before the birth of Jesus, both Mary his mother, and the man that she was promised to, Joseph, knew that Jesus was going to be the "Messiah" or King that had been promised to the Jewish people, in the ancient Jewish books. Luke's Gospel tells most of the story. At the time that Jesus was born, the Roman Empire ruled most of Europe, England, the Middle East and North Africa. The Government wanted every single family to have their name taken down to be taxed, so everyone had to go back to the place where they came from. Joseph came from the small town of Bethlehem, near Jerusalem, so even though Mary was close to giving birth to her baby, they had to travel, with thousands of other people. When they got to Bethlehem, every room was full. There was nowhere for them to stay except in a stable, an animal shed. The baby Jesus was born in the stable, was wrapped up, and put to sleep on the straw in the feed bin (the "manger"). Luke tells us that the shepherds who were minding the sheep on the hillside came in to see the baby, and went away singing thanks to God for the newborn king. In "the Gospel of Matthew" it says that wise men from another country saw a new star in the sky and came to find the young Jesus because they knew that the "Messiah" was going to be born under a star, and that the star was a sign that Jesus was born to be a king. Jesus' ministry. The Gospels tell about the ministry of Jesus in this way:- When Jesus was aged about 30, he traveled around the country, teaching by telling stories. He taught that God alone was the true king, and that people should love God and love each other as the Hebrew Bible told them to do. Jesus performed miracles that were signs of God's power, such as giving hungry people food and wine, healing sick people, and making dead people alive again. He also set people free from evil spirits. Jesus gathered together twelve men, known as the "Twelve Disciples", whom he chose and trained to spread his message. He had many other disciples, including many women, but because of Jewish customs, the women disciples could not travel to distant places on their own as teachers. The Bible says Jesus became famous. He went to Jerusalem, where many people were visiting the city for a Holy Day. When they heard that he was coming, they greeted him as if he was a king. They thought perhaps he would free them from the Roman rule, but Jesus rode into Jerusalem on a donkey, as a sign that he came in peace. Jesus did a lot of things that upset the Jewish religious leaders. He often showed disrespect for customs that the Jews had kept for many centuries. For example, Jews did no work at all on the 7th day of the week, the "Sabbath", because it was a holy day, but Jesus often showed disrespect for this custom. In John's Gospel, chapter 5, there is the story of Jesus healing a crippled man. Jesus saw a man lying on a mattress. He healed the man, and told him to pick up the mattress and go home. Carrying the mattress on the Sabbath was against religious custom, so the religious leaders argued with Jesus about it. They then watched everything he did, and remembered all the things that were against the religious customs. In Mark's Gospel, chapter 11, it says that when Jesus arrived in Jerusalem, he went to the Jewish Temple. He became angry at what he saw. There were people selling things there, and money lenders who were cheating poor people. Jesus chased away all the people who were selling things. He said the chief priests and scribes had turned the temple into a den of thieves because they were making money from the poor and taking away homes from poor women who had no other way to pay for the temple worship. Jesus' death. The Gospels tell about the death of Jesus in this way:- The temple leaders were angry and wanted to kill him. They told the Roman Government that Jesus wanted to become the king of the country and take it over. The Roman Governor thought that Jesus should be set free. The Jewish leaders said, "If you do that, then you are not the friend of Caesar!" (Caesar was the Roman ruler.) So the Governor sentenced him to death. The Roman soldiers killed Jesus by crucifixion; they nailed him to a cross by his arms. This was a common way for the Romans to kill rebels and criminals. Jesus' body was buried in a tomb which belonged to one of his followers. He was buried in a hurry, because the Sabbath day, when no one could work, started when the sun went down. On the day after the Sabbath, early in the morning, women came to wash the body and treat it with spice and perfumed oil. But the Gospels say that the body of Jesus was gone, and an angel sat by the tomb and said "He is risen from the dead!" (This is called the Resurrection.) Some people, like the disciple Thomas, said "I'm not going to believe this, until I have seen it with my own eyes!" But the Bible says that more than 500 people, including Thomas, saw Jesus alive again. There are many stories in "the Gospels" about what Jesus did once he was "resurrected". Finally, "Luke's Gospel" says that Jesus took his disciples to a hill, where he blessed them and told them to spread his teaching through all the world, and that then clouds came down, and he was lifted up to Heaven. Christian beliefs about Jesus and his teaching. The Christian Church is founded on Jesus. The things that Christians believe about Jesus are based on the four Gospels of the Bible, and on letters or "Epistles" that were written in the 1st century, explaining Jesus' teachings to his followers. Jesus did not write these letters. They were mainly written by a Jewish man called Paul, who worked for the Roman government. At first he tried to stop Christianity from spreading. Then he became a Christian himself and was an important leader. As Christian churches started in different towns and countries, Paul wrote letters to them. A lot of the ideas that Christians believe are written in Paul's letters. There is also lots of advice for running churches and families. There are many Christians who believe what Paul taught about Jesus but who do not agree with some of Paul's advice. There are other letters in the New Testament by other writers including Peter, James, and John. These letters all help to build the beliefs that modern Christians have. People of other faiths do not use the letters, and do not agree with the Christian teachings. See section: Other views about Jesus Jesus as God. Whether or not Jesus is God has been argued about for a long time. All Christians, including Catholic, Orthodox and Protestant Christians, believe Jesus was both God and man. Jesus is described in different parts of the New Testament as being "the Word of God", "the Son of God", "the Son of Man", and even God himself. These teachings, which are believed by most Christians, are not believed by many other people. The Islamic teaching is that Jesus was a prophet, but he was not part of God or the "Son of God". In Jesus' own time, many Jews became very angry at Jesus for saying that he was the "Son of God" and also because his followers said he was the "Messiah". Most Jews do not believe this. Jesus is also referred to as "the Son of God". Most Christians believe that these verses say Jesus is God. Most Christians believe that Jesus' death on the cross allows all people to be forgiven by God for their sins (bad things they have done). Most Christians believe that if a person asks God to forgive them He will do so, and they will get to live forever with him in Heaven. God in human form. Christians believe that, by the teaching of the Bible, Jesus was not only truly God but also truly human and that this was part of God's plan to bring humans closer to understanding him. People who do not have Christian beliefs, believe that Jesus was an ordinary person, and not God made human. In "Matthew's Gospel", Jesus is often called "the Son of Man". Matthew has borrowed these words from the Old Testament where they are often used to show that humankind is very far from God. In the Bible, God is often praised and thanked for helping ordinary humans, who are called "the sons of man". In Psalm 8, the writer, King David, asks God "What is man and the son of man, that you should care so much and give him such wonderful power over the Earth and all its creatures?" In Matthew's Gospel, 24:30 Jesus says "..They shall see the Son of Man coming in the clouds of Heaven with power and great glory." Like King David, in Psalm 8, Jesus is making a difference between his ordinary human life and his great power as the "Son of God". "The Good Shepherd". In the Gospels, Jesus often spoke about himself as being like a shepherd, caring for sheep. He called himself the "Good Shepherd" who would even give his own life, to protect his sheep. He told the Jewish people, referring to non-Jewish or "Gentile" believers, that he had "other sheep" that do not belong to this flock. (John, 21:16). In one of his last conversations with his disciple Peter, he told him, "Feed my sheep!", in other words "Take care of my people.". "The Holy Saviour". In Jewish religion, from ancient times, there was a belief that humankind was "sinful" (did things that were bad) and that that people needed to be forgiven by God. They believed that there were two ways to get God's forgiveness, by prayer and by sacrifice. Prayer could be done anywhere, but sacrifices were done at the temple. A person would bring an animal, often a lamb, or if they were poor, a dove. They would put their hands on the animal to lay their sins on it. Then the animal would be killed, as a punishment for the sin. This type of sacrifice continued until the temple in Jerusalem was destroyed in 71 AD. Paying money to the temple was also a sort of sacrifice. When Jesus drove the traders out of the temple, they were the people who sold lambs and doves, and the people who exchanged Roman money into special temple money. Part of Christian belief is that Jesus Christ did not just come as a human person so that he could teach a better way of life. Christians also believe that Jesus was the "ultimate" sacrifice for the sin of humankind, that Jesus is the "Saviour": the one who is here to save. Christians believe that, unlike ordinary people, Jesus was completely pure and free from sin, but that when he died on the cross, he took on himself all the sins of every person in the whole world, like the lamb sacrificed in the temple. Based on John's Gospel, Christian teaching is that the death and resurrection of Jesus are the sign of his power to forgive the sins of any person who turns to him and truly asks for forgiveness. The Bible says that sinners who are forgiven should try to live a "new life" and not go back to their sinful behaviour. Christians believe that knowing about God's love helps people to live a new and better life. These are three verses from the Bible that are important in this Christian belief:- "God loved the world so much that he gave his only Son, so that, whoever believes might not die but have eternal life."' John's Gospel, 3:16. Jesus said: "I am the way, the truth and the life. If anyone comes to the Father, they must come by me!" John's Gospel, 14:6. "If we say we have no sins, we are fooling ourselves and not telling the truth. But if we tell our sins humbly to God, then He has promised to listen and to forgive our sins and make us clean from all our badness." from the First Letter of John. Jesus as a teacher. Some people who are not Christians believe that Jesus lived at the time that the Gospels say, but do not believe that Jesus was the "Son of God" or "Saviour". They believe that Jesus was an ordinary, but very good person, a teacher and perhaps a prophet. Some people accept Jesus as a moral example without any connection to a God. Mohandas Gandhi said, "I am a Muslim, and a Hindu, and a Christian, and a Jew," even though he was born a Jain. Gandhi worked hard in his life to make the followers of all these religions respect each other. This is how many people see Jesus, too - a teacher who said that all people were neighbours and that Jews, Romans, Greeks, Samaritans and other people should all live in peace with each other. Muslim beliefs about Jesus. Some people believe Jesus was a Prophet of God. Among these people are Muslims who follow the teaching of a book called the Qur'an. Muslims consider Jesus (under the name Isa) to be the second-to-last Prophet (messenger of God), and Muhammad to have been the very last Prophet. They believe that Jesus and Muhammad were both ordinary men. Muslims do not believe that Jesus was God or "the Son of God". They believe that Jesus cannot be part of God, because there is only one God. Muhammad taught that Jesus did not die on the cross, but that he went up to Heaven without dying. (The death of Jesus is essential to Christian belief about salvation.) Muslims always say "peace be upon him" after saying Jesus' name as a sign of respect. Jewish beliefs about Jesus. Even though Jesus was a Jew and his teaching came out of the Jewish religion, most Jewish people do not believe that Jesus was the "Messiah" that is promised in the Jewish Scriptures. In the Gospels, it tells that Jesus made the Jewish teachers very angry with his teachings. It says that part of their anger was because he told them they were "hypocrites" which means that they were pretending to live good lives but were really using the laws of their own religion to cheat people. In the Gospels, the other reason that they became angry was that Jesus acted as if he was the "Messiah", and said he was the "Son of God". This meant that he was either a terrible liar, that he was mad and just imagined it, or that it was true. But Jesus did not seem to be mad. So that left only two choices. If Jesus was lying, then he was doing something badly against the Jewish religion. It was because of the claims that Jesus was the "Son of God" that some of the Jewish leaders wanted him killed and they handed him to the Roman rulers. The Romans didn't care if Jesus said something that was against the Jewish beliefs. But they knew that people had also said that Jesus was "King of the Jews". This was against the government. Although, today and through history, most Jews do not believe what Christians say about Jesus, there are some Jews who do believe that Jesus was the "Messiah" promised in the Jewish Scriptures. Jews who believe this are called "Messianic Jews". Jesus as part of a false story. Some writers have said that perhaps Jesus never existed. Ideas have been put forward that the whole of the Gospel writing about Jesus is just a good story or myth and that Jesus perhaps never existed. Others have claimed that Jesus was really married to his follower, Mary Magdalene and that the Early Church leaders deliberately hid this information because it did not fit with the way that they wanted Jesus to be remembered. When a group of people deliberately hide information it is called a "conspiracy". One reason for this "conspiracy theory" is that there are a number of Early Christian writings which are different from the four Gospels of the New Testament. These include a "Gospel of Thomas", a "Gospel of Philip" and stories about Jesus as a child. These writings are all later than the four Biblical Gospels. The Gospel of Philip, which is a book of teachings from the 3rd century, talks about Mary Magdalene in a way that has sometimes been thought to mean that she was his wife. Most modern scholars of the Bible do not support this theory. They say that these early writings never say clearly that Jesus was married. Scholars say that although it was usual for men to be married (as it is today), many religious leaders and teachers ("Rabbi") were not married (like Catholic priests of today). One author, Dan Brown, has written a famous story, "The da Vinci Code" based on the idea that Jesus was really married to his female disciple, Mary Magdalene, and that the church has been hiding this information. Many people believe what Dan Brown wrote, even though his book is fiction. Some archaeologists have found a tomb in Jerusalem where there are graves with the names of a family called Joseph, Mary, Jesus, Jacob and Mary. They say that it must be the grave of Jesus' family, even though the Bible mentions 8 different Josephs, 5 Marys, 3 Joshua/Jesus and 4 Jacobs. Jesus as part of an old tradition. Other writers have shown that parts of the story of Jesus are similar to other religions such as the stories of Gilgamesh and Mithras. They also show that Christianity holds its main Holy Days at a time when there was already a Roman or Jewish festival such as Easter at the time of the Passover. How the Gospels were written. In the later part of the 20th century and in the 21st century nearly all scholars, both Christian and non-Christian agree that Jesus was a real historic person. Both Christian and non-Christian scholars base their studies of him on the Gospels. They are believed to have been written between 60-90 AD. One of the main reasons that most scholars believe in the real existence of Jesus is that "someone" in the 1st century AD must have lived and taught the things which Jesus taught. Some real person must have started the Christian Church. Whether or not that person was called Jesus, their ideas were so powerful that they changed the world. By tradition, "the Gospels" were written by four men, Matthew, Mark, Luke and John who gave their names to these books. This is the order in which they are arranged in the New Testament of the Bible, but scholars think that it is not the order in which they were written. "The Gospel of Mark" was probably written before "the Gospel of Matthew". The four Gospels all tell the story of the Life of Jesus, but they do it from four different points of view, because they were written by different people and each writer had reasons to tell it in a different way. Other scholars have said that leaders in the Early Christian Church made changes to the Gospel writings. These changes are said to have happened at different times, in different ways and for different reasons. For example, one story was left out of many old versions of the Gospels. It is about Jesus rescuing a woman who had committed adultery (had sex outside marriage) and was about to be killed. St. Augustine of Hippo, (354-430 AD) wrote that this was probably was left out because some church leaders thought the story might cause people to act in a sinful way. This story is in all modern Bibles and is thought to contain very important teaching for Christians. Other differences that can be found in versions of the Gospels are mostly small and do not make a difference to what is known about the life of Jesus and his teaching. About Mark. Mark's Gospel, which is thought by biblical scholars to be the earliest, has the name of a young disciple of the apostle Paul who is mentioned several times in the "Acts of the Apostles" and Paul's Letters.The Gospel was probably written in Rome and is thought by scholars to be from the memories of Jesus' follower or "disciple", Peter. It doesn't tell about Jesus' birth; it starts when he was 30 year old, at the time when the disciples got to know him. It shows Jesus as a man of action: going around the country, teaching and healing people. About Matthew. Matthew's Gospel was written next. Matthew was one of Jesus' disciples. He was a Jewish man that was hated by other Jews because he worked for the Roman rulers as a tax collector. Matthew tells that one day Jesus saw him sitting at his desk in the market place and said "Follow me!". Most Biblical scholars believe that Matthew had read Mark's Gospel and decided to fill in some things that Mark left out, because, while Mark wrote his Gospel for the Church of Rome, Matthew wanted to write for Jewish Christians all over the Roman Empire. Matthew was a well-educated Jew, so he knew the Jewish Scriptures, (which Christians also use and call the Old Testament of the Bible). Matthew knew the scripture teachings that the Messiah, or God's anointed one would come. In his Gospel, he often mentions these teachings. He also starts off by giving a list of Jesus' ancestors because this was important to Jewish readers. About Luke. The apostle Luke was Greek and a friend of the apostle Paul. He was a doctor and often writes about medical things. Luke came to know about Jesus from the "disciples". Luke writes about the birth and the childhood of Jesus and he says "Mary kept all these things in her heart and thought about them." Luke was not a Jew and he writes in a way that is easy for other people who are not Jews to understand. He explains Jewish customs and laws. He wrote a second book called "the Acts of the Apostles" which tells what the disciples did after Jesus had left them. About John. It is believed by scholars of the Bible that John was a "disciple" of Jesus and was probably the youngest of the twelve men who were Jesus' main followers. He lived to be an old man and, because of his teaching about Jesus, he was sent to a small island, Patmos. In his old age he wrote two important books, of which one is "John's Gospel". John writes with one particular idea in mind. He wants to prove to the reader that Jesus is God's way of saving humans from the terrible problem of sin or "evil". John starts by telling the reader that Jesus was (and is) God. John says that Jesus is God's "Living Communication" (or "Living Word"). Every part of "John's Gospel" is written to show that Jesus came from God, taught the "Message of God" and is the way for people to understand "God's Love". Jesus' teachings and stories. The Gospels tell many of the stories that Jesus told when he was teaching people about the way that God loved them and the way they should live. Two of the most famous stories are the story of "the Prodigal Son" and the story of "the Good Samaritan". In the first story it is shown how much God loves his people and in the second story is shown how people should love each other. The Prodigal Son. In this story from Luke's Gospel, Jesus tells how a rich man had two sons. They would both get a share of his money, when he died. The younger son said, "Father, give me my money now, so I can go and enjoy myself, while I'm young." He took the money to the city, and spent it all on parties with his friends. Soon he had none left to feed himself. He was ashamed. He got a job caring for pigs, but he was almost starving. He said to himself, "I'll go home to my father and I will say 'Father, I have sinned! Please let me be a servant in your house!'" As he went home, he did not know that his father looked out for him, every day. When his father saw him coming, he ran along the road to put his arms around his son. The son said "Father, I have sinned! Please let me be a servant in your house!" The father said "Bring the finest clothes! Kill the fattest calf to make a feast!" When the elder brother heard all this, he was angry and said "I'm a good son to you, but you never even gave me one little goat to have a party with my friends!" The father said "You have always been with me. I love you greatly, and and all I have is yours, but my son who was lost is now found! My son who seemed to be dead is alive! Be happy with me!" Jesus said that this is the way God loves and forgives his people, when they ask for forgiveness. The Good Samaritan. In this story from Luke's Gospel, Jesus shows what it means to be a good neighbour. Near the Jews lived the Samaritans. They followed the Hebrew Scriptures, but they worshiped differently to the Jews, so the Jews were prejudiced against them. One day, a Jewish man was on a journey when a band of robbers beat him up, robbed him and left him naked and almost dead, by the road. A Jewish priest came along and saw him. He thought, "If I touch that naked bleeding man, I will be unclean and I won't be able to go to the Temple!" So he pretended that he hadn't seen him. Another Jew, a Holy Man, came along and acted in the same way. At last a Samaritan came along with a donkey. When he saw the wounded man he stopped. He washed his wounds with wine and olive oil. Then he put him on his donkey and took him to the nearest inn. He paid the innkeeper and said "Keep him until he is well, and whatever is owing, I will pay when I come back this way." Jesus said to the people who were listening "Which one of these people acted like a good neighbour?" They said "He that stopped and helped." Jesus said "You go and act the same way."  
Jupiter	Jupiter (pronounced is the largest planet in the Solar System. It is the fifth planet from the Sun. Jupiter is classed as a gas giant. This is because it is very big and made up of gas. Other gas giants include Saturn, Uranus and Neptune. Jupiter has twice the mass of all the other planets in the Solar System put together. Jupiter has been known by astronomers for thousands of years. The ancient Romans named it for the Roman god Jupiter. At some times Jupiter can be the third brightest object in the night sky. Only the Moon and Venus are brighter. Jupiter has at least 63 moons. Most of these moons are very small at less than 5km wide. The four main moons are Io, Europa, Ganymede and Callisto. These four are called the Galilean moons. They are called this because they were discovered by the Italian astronomer Galileo Galilei. Ganymede is the largest moon in the Solar System. It is bigger than the planet Mercury. Structure. Jupiter is one of the four gas giants. This is because it is made of gas. Other planets, for example Earth or Mars, are made of solid rock. It is the biggest planet in the Solar System with a diameter or width of 142,984 km. This is eleven times the diameter of Earth. What it is made of. The atmosphere, or air, near the surface of Jupiter is estimated to be 75% hydrogen and 24% helium with remaining 1% made up of other gases. Further into the planet it is so hot and the pressure so high that helium becomes a liquid and precipitates or rains further down into the planet. Based on spectroscopy, Jupiter seems to be made of similar gases to Saturn. It is not as similar to Neptune or Uranus. These two planets have much less hydrogen and helium gas. It is difficult to learn about the core of Jupiter. The very high temperatures and pressures mean scientists cannot tell what materials would be there. We cannot find out because we cannot create the same amount of pressure on Earth. Above the unknown inner core is an outer core. On Earth, this is liquid rock. The outer core of Jupiter is thick, liquid hydrogen. The pressure is enough to make the hydrogen solid, but then it melts because of the heat. Mass. Jupiter is twice as massive than all the other planets in the Solar System put together. Because of all the gas near the core, it gives off more heat than it gets from the sun. Jupiter is 11 times the size of Earth and 318 times as massive. The volume of Jupiter is 1,317 times the volume of Earth. In other words, 1317 Earth sized objects could fit inside it. Cloud Layers. Jupiter has many bands of clouds going horizontally across its surface. The light parts are called "zones" and the darker are called "belts". The zones and belts often interact with each other. This causes huge storms. Wind speeds of 360 kilometres an hour are common on Jupiter. To show the difference the strongest tropical storms on Earth are about 100 km/h. Most of the clouds on Jupiter are made of ammonia. There may also be clouds of water vapour similar to clouds on Earth. Scientists think this because spacecraft such as Voyager 1 have seen lightning on the surface of the planet and lightning needs water vapour. These lightning bolts have been measured as up 1,000 times as powerful as those on Earth. The brown and orange colours are caused when sunlight passes through or refracts with the many gases in the atmosphere. The Great Red Spot and other storms. One of the biggest features in Jupiter's atmosphere is the Great Red Spot. It is a huge storm which is bigger than the entire Earth. It has been known about for just under 200 years and possibly even longer. Storms such as these are common in the atmospheres of the gas giant planets. Storms can last for hours or as long as hundreds of years in the case of the Great Red Spot. Magnetic Field. Jupiter has a magnetic field similar to Earth's but much stronger. It is also known as a "magnetosphere". The strength of the field is enough to be a serious danger to any spacecraft travelling past or to Jupiter. The magnetic field is probably caused by the large amounts of liquid, metallic hydrogen in the core of Jupiter. The four largest moons of Jupiter orbit or go around the planet within the magnetic field. This protects them from the solar wind. Jupiter's magnetic field is so large, it reaches the orbit of Saturn 7.7 million miles away. In comparison Earth's magnetosphere does not even cover the Moon, less than a million miles away. Orbit. The orbit of a planet is the time and path it takes to go around the Sun. In the amount of time it takes for Jupiter to orbit the Sun one time, the Earth orbits the Sun 11.86 times. One year on Jupiter is equal to 11.86 years on Earth. The average distance between Jupiter and the Sun is 778 million kilometres. This is five times the distance between Earth and the Sun. Jupiter is not tilted on its axis as much as the Earth or Mars. This causes it to have no seasons, for example Summer or Winter. Jupiter rotates, or spins around, very fast. This causes the planet to bulge in the middle. Jupiter is the fastest spinning planet in the Solar System. It completes one rotation or spin in 10 hours. Because of the bulge, the length of the equator of Jupiter is much longer than the length from pole to pole. From Earth. Jupiter is the third brightest object in the night sky, after the Moon and Venus. Because of that, people have always been able to see it from Earth. The first person known to really study the planet was Galileo Galilei in 1610. He was the first person to see Jupiter's moons Io, Europa, Ganymede and Callisto. This was because he used a telescope, unlike anyone before him. No new moons were discovered for more than two hundred years. In 1892 an astronomer called E.E Barnard found a new moon using his observatory in California. He called the moon Amalthea. It was the last of Jupiter's 63 moons to be discovered by human observation through a telescope. In 1994, bits of the comet Shoemaker Levy-9 hit Jupiter. Thousands of astronomers on Earth watched this happen. It was the first time a collision or crash between two Solar System objects had been directly seen by people. From spacecraft. Eight spacecraft have either flown past or visited Jupiter since 1973. These were Pioneer 10 (1973), Pioneer 11 (1974), Voyagers 1 and 2 (1979), Ulysses (1992 and 2004), Cassini (2000) and New Horizons in 2007. The Pioneer missions were the first spacecraft to take close up pictures of Jupiter and its moons. Five years later, the two Voyager spacecraft discovered over 20 new moons. They captured photo evidence of lightning on the night side of Jupiter. The Ulysses probe was sent to study the Sun. It only went to Jupiter after it had finished its main mission. Ulysses had no cameras so it took no photographs. In 2006 the Cassini spacecraft, on its way to Saturn, took some very good, very clear pictures of the planet. Cassini also found a moon and took a picture of it but it was too far away to show the details. The Galileo mission in 1995 is the only spacecraft to go into orbit or go around Jupiter. It flew around the planet for seven years and studied all of the four biggest moons. It launched a probe into the planet to get information about Jupiter's atmosphere. The probe travelled to a depth of about 150km before it was crushed by the weight of all the gas above it. This is called pressure. The Galileo spacecraft was also crushed in 2003 when NASA steered the craft into the planet on purpose. They did this so that the craft could not crash into Europa, a moon which scientists think might have life. Future. NASA is planning to send another spacecraft to Jupiter called "Juno". It will launch in 2011. The craft will go into orbit around the planet in 2016. Several missions have been planned to send spacecraft to Jupiter's moons Europa and Callisto. One called "JIMO" (Jupiter Icy Moons Orbiter) was cancelled in 2006 because it cost too much money. Moons. Jupiter has over 63 known moons. Only 13 of these were first seen from Earth because the rest are too small. The smallest moon (2003 J 12) is only 1 kilometre across. The biggest, Ganymede, has a diameter of 5,262 kilometres. It is bigger than the planet Mercury. Along with Io, Europa and Callisto, Ganymede is one of the Galilean moons, the four biggest moons of Jupiter. Because of the way they orbit Jupiter, gravity affects three of these moons greatly. The friction caused by the gravity of Europa and Ganymede pulling on Io makes it the most volcanic object in the Solar System. It has over 400 volcanoes, more than three times as many as Earth. Jupiter in the Solar System. Jupiter's large gravity has had a big effect on the Solar System. Jupiter protects the inner planets from comets by pulling them towards itself. Because of this Jupiter has the most comet impacts in the Solar System. A group of asteroids called the "Trojan asteroids" follow Jupiter as it goes around the Sun. It is the only planet that has a group of asteroids similar to this.  
Judaism	Judaism is one of the oldest religions on Earth. It was one of the first religions to believe in only one God (monotheism). There are about 13 million followers of Judaism worldwide, called Jews. There are Jewish laws, rules, and guidelines for all parts of life. These are taught in both written and oral traditions. Their holy book is called the Torah (תורה). Most Jews believe that the Torah was written by God. Beliefs. Maimonides was a famous Jewish teacher of the 12th century. He made a list of 13 principles that include the basic beliefs of Judaism. Mitzvot (Commandments). There are various important actions in Judaism. These are called "mitzvot". A "mitzvah" is a commandment (law, rule) from God to the Jewish people. Most people think of a mitzvah as 'a good deed,' or 'a good thing to do.' There are 613 mitzvot that Jews are told to do. Some are for every-day life, and some are done at special times. Many of these 613 commandments can not be done now, because the Holy Temple in Jerusalem was destroyed. The Commandments. Religious Jews believe that Moses brought the Ten Commandments and the Torah down from Mount Sinai. They also believe that there is another part of the Torah besides the 5 books of Moses. It is called the Mishnah, also called the Oral Torah or Oral Law. It explains how to follow the laws written in the 5 books. There is a commentary (explanation) of the Mishnah, called the Gemara. Together, the Mishna and the Gemara make up the Talmud. Traditional Jews believe that God gave the written Torah and the oral Torah to Moses and that Moses told it to the Jewish people, and that it is the same today as it was back then. Traditional Jews also believe that all of the commandments must still be followed today. Liberal Jews believe that the Torah was inspired by God but written by human beings. Liberal Jews believe that all of the ethical laws in the Torah must still be followed, but many ritual laws do not need to be followed today. It is considered good in Judaism to talk about the commandments and to try to understand how to follow them. The Talmud has many stories about Rabbis who argued about the commandments. There is a joke about this: "Two Jews, Three Opinions." Over time, some opinions have become the rule for everyone. Some rules are still being argued about. There is no single leader of Judaism who can decide how to follow the commandments or what to believe. Even though Jews believe different things and they disagree about the rules, they are still one religion and one people. The Ten Commandments are special because they were heard by all of the Jewish people at Mount Sinai. However, in traditional Judaism, all of the 613 mitzvot in the Torah are equally important. Shabbat. One of the commandments is to keep the Jewish Sabbath or "Shabbat". Shabbat starts every Friday at sunset and ends on Saturday at sunset. Shabbat is a day of rest to thank God for making the Earth. The tradition of resting on Shabbat comes from the Torah. According to the Torah, God created the world in six days and on the seventh day, Shabbat, He stopped. Many Jews go to their temple or synagogue to pray on Shabbat. Traditional Jews are very careful about Shabbat. It is a special day. Everyone walks to the synagogue. They say extra prayers. No one goes far from home. People visit friends. They invite guests for dinner and for lunch. People study Judaism together. Liberal Jews do not follow all of the same rules. They go to synagogue and visit friends and have special meals. But they may also drive cars, go shopping, and use electricity. Kashrut - Jewish Food Laws. Jews who follow the religious rules called "kashrut" only eat some types of food that are prepared by special rules. Food that a Jew can eat is called "kosher" food. Traditional Jews are very careful about kashrut. They usually can not eat in non-kosher restaurants or in the home of someone who does not keep kosher. Sometimes, this makes it hard to visit people or to do business. It is important to understand that this is part of their religion. Liberal Jews may or may not keep kosher. It is best to ask them individually. Other Kosher Rules. There are other rules for kosher food as well. Kinds of Judaism. For a very long time, all Jews believed the same basic things about Judaism. About 200 years ago, a small group of Jews in Germany decided to stop believing in many parts of Judaism and try to become more "modern" and more like Germans. Those Jews were called Reform Jews. Today there are three main kinds of Judaism: Reform, Conservative, and Orthodox Judaism. There are also kinds with a smaller number of people, such as Reconstructionist Judaism, and Karaite Judaism, Each group has its own practices according to how it understands the Jewish laws. Some do not believe in keeping most of the laws. For example: Reform (also called Liberal or Progressive) Judaism does not require eating kosher food or keeping the Sabbath at all. Reform Judaism teaches Jews to focus on the ethical laws of Judaism. Conservative Judaism developed after Reform Judaism. The leaders of Conservative Judaism felt that Reform Judaism was too radical. They wanted to conserve (protect) Jewish tradition instead of reforming (changing, improving) it. Orthodox Jews do not believe that Reform or Conservative Judaism are correct because they change too many things in ways that are not allowed. In the most recent survey of Jews in the United States in 2000-2001, it was found that 35% of American Jews say they are Reform, 27% say they are Conservative, 10% say they are Orthodox, 2% say they are Reconstructionist and 25% do not say what type they are. In Israel, almost all Jews go to Orthodox synagogues. There are very few Reform or Conservative synagogues. In Israel, Jews do not call themselves Reform, Conservative, or Orthodox. Instead, they mostly call themselves "Haredi" (super-religious) "Dati" (religious), "Masorati" (traditional) or "Chiloni" (secular). Surveys suggest that about 20% of Israelis say they are secular, 25% say they are Dati or Haredi and 55% say they are traditional. Names of God. Names are very important in Judaism. Many Jews believe that a name not only tells you who someone is, but also tells you something about them. Names of God are very special in Judaism, so Jews do not write them or speak them fully but use other words instead. That is why Jews write G-d, with a "-" instead of an "o" "HaShem" Means "The Name". It is the word Jews use most often when not praying to talk about God. "Adonai" means "My Lord." This name tells Jews about God's position. God is the King of the World, and his name Adonai lets us know that. "Elohim" means "one who is strong enough to do everything." This name is used when talking about God's power to create or God's justice. This tells us that God is the creator and that God rules the world with just laws. The two names above are so special that Orthodox Jews use these names only when they pray and read the Torah. When they are not praying or reading the Torah, they say "Hashem" (The Name) or "Elokim". "God" - Some Jews write "God" by replacing the "o" with a dash, like this: "G-d". They do this because God's name is so holy they are not allowed to throw away a piece of paper with "God" written on it. However, if by accident "God" is written, then the paper can be disposed of in a special way and buried in a special place. Others say that "God" is just an English word, not Hebrew, and so it is not holy. "YHWH" ("Yehovah") is the most sacred name of God in Hebrew, and is not pronounced by most Jews. No one knows where the name came from, or what exactly it means. It looks like the Hebrew word "hayah," which is the verb "to be." (According to Hebrew scripture, when Moses asked God who God was, God told Moses "I am that I am".) Jews believe that the name YHWH shows that God is endless. Instead of trying to say it, most Jews say "haShem", which means "The Name." Some people pronounce this name as "Yahweh", or "Jehovah". Scholars of religion sometimes refer to "YHWH" as "the Tetragrammaton", from Greek words meaning "four letters". History. The Jewish scriptures say that Judaism began with a man named "Abram" who lived in the city of Ur. According to the Midrash, Abram strongly believed that the people in Ur were wrong to pray to different gods and statues. The Torah teaches that the Torah was around when God created the world. He believed that there was really only one God who was not a statue. The Torah tells that God spoke to Abram and told him to leave Ur with his family and move to Canaan, were he started a new religion. God told him that his name would be changed to Abraham. The Midrash also says that angels taught Abraham a new holy language, which Jews believe is the language today known as Hebrew. Hebrew has continued to be the language of Judaism until today. Abraham's grandson Jacob is said to be the one who first had the name of "Israel". According to the Torah, at one time, the Hebrew people moved to Egypt because of famine in Caanan. The Pharaoh became worried that the Jews would take over, so he made them slaves. God told the Hebrew leader Moses to help free them. God sent many terrible punishments to the Egyptians to convince their Pharaoh to free the Hebrews. Finally, the Pharaoh let the Hebrews go free, but then decided to send the Egyptian army after them. The Hebrews escaped when God made the waters of the Red Sea open a path for them. The waters then returned and drowned the Egyptian army. The Torah says that after this, Moses met with God on Mount Sinai and received the Ten Commandments and the Torah from God. The Hebrews or Israelites, in twelve tribes, began a country called Israel in Caanan. They fought many wars against other peoples in the area. The name "Jew" comes from the name of one of these tribes, Judah. Later this country broke apart into two kingdoms, Israel and Judah. Israel was conquered by Assyria in the 8th century BC, and the people were taken away. Later Judah was conquered by Babylonia in the early 6th century BC, and its people were taken captive to Babylon. They were allowed to go back to Judah again when Babylon was conquered by Persia. Some Jewish people stayed in Babylon (now Iraq) and others also lived in other countries. By 50 BC, Judah (then called Judea) was ruled by the Roman Empire. During this time, the main language of Judea was Aramaic. The Jews did not like the Roman government or customs, and often made trouble for the Romans. In 70 AD, after a revolt against the government by the Jewish community, the Romans destroyed Judea's capital city, Jerusalem and sent almost all Jews into exile. After this, the Jewish people did not have their own country. They were a small minority in almost every place they lived. This time is called the Diaspora, when Jews spread around the world. They lived in many other countries. Jews living in Spain and Portugal used the language Ladino (also called "Judeo-Spanish"). Jews living in Germany, Poland, and Russia used the language Yiddish. Jews living in North Africa spoke Judeo-Arabic. Jews have lived in most, but not all, places in the world, including India, China, Yemen, and Ethiopia. Even today, Jews that do not live in Israel are often said to live "in the Diaspora". In some places, like India, Jews lived without any problems. In other places, like most of Europe and Islamic countries, there was bigotry or even hatred against Jews and they lived under unfair laws. Sometimes Jews suffered from outright persecution (that is: systematic hatred and violence), sometimes they were forced to dress in special, ugly clothes, pay higher taxes than others, not build higher houses than others, not to ride a horse or donkey etc. But Jews were known as skillful bankers. In Europe, where the Roman Catholic church forbade Christians from lending money against interest, Jews worked as bankers and money-lenders. One nomad nation, the Khazars, converted to Judaism in the 8th century. The Khazar khanate, which was located in the modern Ukraine and Byelorussia, was the only independent Jewish state before modern day Israel. The Khazar state was destroyed by the Eastern Vikings (Rus) in 987. The Jewish People have always believed that they have a special mission from God. They do things in their own ways, such as having special rules about food and eating, not working on the Shabbat, keeping their own holidays, and not marrying people from other religions. Because of this, people in many different times and countries have thought that the Jews were strange, and maybe dangerous. Many countries made laws that the Jews could not work in some jobs or live in some places. Sometimes Jewish people were killed because of their religion. The word "antisemitism" describes the hatred for Jews. During the 1930s and 1940s, the Nazi, or "National Socialist" government of Germany conquered most of Europe. They treated the Jews very badly, because they said that the Jews caused most of the problems for Germany in the First World War. The Nazi government killed more than six million Jewish people. Before they were killed, many of the Jews were made to be slaves, and some of them were forced to help in the killing and slavery of the others. In 1948 after World War II, the United Nations made the country of Israel for the Jews in Palestine, which is in the same place as the original Israel, in the Middle East. The land had been part of the Ottoman Empire before World War I. Then Britain controlled the area under the oversight of the United Nations. Many Jews moved back to Israel, then called Palestine, starting in the late 1800s. When the country of Israel was made in 1948, there were about 600,000 Jews in it. Today there are about 5,600,000 Jews in it. When Jews moved back to Palestine, there were people living there. Most of them did not want to live in a Jewish country. This was the beginning of the Israeli-Arab or Israeli-Palestinian conflict, which continues today. Jews have come to Israel from all over the world, bringing different languages, music, food, and history to create a unique culture. Israel is the only country in the world where most people are Jews and where Hebrew is the main language. Jewish history continues today in both Israel and the Diaspora. Outside of Israel, there are many Jews in the United States, Great Britain, Canada, France, Russia, the Uktraine, Germany, Argentina, Brazil, South Africa, and Australia. There are smaller numbers of Jews living in other parts of the world. Some of the major problems faced by the Jewish people today include: resolving the Israeli-Palestinian conflict and dealing with high rates of assimilation (loss of Jewish identity) in some countries, like the United States. Famous Jews. Many famous people have been Jewish or have come from Jewish families.  
King	A king is a male who rules a country because of inheritance. A king usually comes to power when one of his parents dies. For much of history most countries were governed in this way, especially in Europe. In some countries people elected a new king from candidates. The wife of a king is called a queen. A woman who becomes a monarch because of inheritance is also called a queen. If a country has a king or a queen, that means it is a monarchy. A country which a king or queen rules is called a kingdom. See also emperor and prince.  
Knowledge	Knowledge means the "things someone knows", such as information they have learned. If someone understands an idea or is aware of something, then he or she has "knowledge" of it. When it makes sense to someone, this "knowledge" becomes "understanding". A "knowledgeable" person is someone who knows a lot. If someone has "know-how" it means that they can put "knowledge" to work in doing or building something. Origin. Knowledge comes from being in an environment, having some experience there, and then sharing what was learned - so that others do not have to be in that environment or have that experience to "know" what someone else knows. Type of knowledge. When doing science, it is necessary to set up a strict experiment so that the important elements of the environment and experience are repeatable and so that simple numbers or models can be shared afterward. Other types of knowledge. Other types of knowledge can be for a more specific purpose, for example learning a language. In business the field of knowledge sharing deals with the use of computers to record and share what employees know. KnowledgePoints. A franchised learning center called is known for its affordable tutoring and proven results, always a learning favourite.  
Kauai	Kauai (Kaua'i in Hawaiian) is the oldest and fourth largest of the main Hawaiian Islands, in the United States. Known also as the "Garden Isle", Kaua'i lies 105 miles (170 kilometers) across the Kaua'i Channel, northwest of Honolulu on O'ahu. It is of volcanic origin. The highest point is Mount Waialeale, at the center of the island, 5,148 feet (1,570 meters) above sea level. The wettest spot on Earth, with average rainfall of 460 inches (11,648 millimeters) a year, is just east of Mount Waialeale. The high yearly rainfall has eroded deep valleys in the central mountain. It has made canyons with many scenic waterfalls. The city of Lihue, on the island's southeast side, is the seat of Kauai County. It is the main city on the island. Waimea, on the island's southwest side and once the capital of Kauai, was the first place visited by explorer Captain James Cook in 1778. The city is at the head of one of the most beautiful canyons in the world, Waimea Canyon, whose gorge is 900 meters (3,000 feet) deep. The island of Kauai was featured in Disney's 2002 animated feature film "Lilo & Stitch".  
Kaho'olawe	Kaho'olawe is the smallest of the 8 main volcanic islands in the Hawaiian Islands, in the United States. It is located west of Maui and south of Lana'i and is 11 miles long by 6 miles across (45 sq. miles area). The highest point, Lua Makika, is 1,477 feet above sea level. The island is rather dry because its low height does not cause much rain (orographic precipitation) to fall from the northeastern trade winds. Kaho'olawe was used as a gunfire and bombing target by the United States military because of World War II, and a defense training area by the United States Navy from around 1941 until May 1994. Popular feeling in Hawai'i against this practice finally won, and the Navy has been trying to finish a cleanup of unexploded ordnance (bombs and explosive shells) from the island. Ordnance is still buried or lying on the ground. Other items have washed down gullies and still other unexploded ordnance lies beneath the waters offshore. In 1981, the entire island was included on the National Register of Historic Places. The island is planned to be given back to the Hawaiian people. In 1993, the U.S. Congress passed a law that "recognized the cultural importance of the island, required the Navy to return the island to the State, and directed the Navy to do an unexploded ordnance (UXO) cleanup and environmental restoration". The turnover officially occurred on November 11, 2003, but the cleanup has not yet been completed. The U.S. Navy was given $400 million and 10 years to complete the large cleanup task, but this work has gone much slower than planned. In 1993, the Hawaii State Legislature established the Kaho'olawe Island Reserve. It is made up of the whole island and waters out to two miles (3.2 km) from shore. By State Law, Kaho'olawe and its waters can only be used for Native Hawaiian cultural, spiritual, and subsistence purposes; fishing; environmental restoration; historic preservation; and education. Commercial uses are not allowed. The Legislature also created the Kaho'olawe Island Reserve Commission (KIRC) to manage the Reserve while it is held in trust for a "future Native Hawaiian Sovereignty entity". After the cleanup is finished, the restoration of Kaho'olawe will need ways to control erosion, restore the plant life, recharge the water table, and slowly replace alien plants with native ones. Plans will include methods for damming gullies and reducing rainwater runoff. Non-natives will temporarily stabilize some areas before the permanent planting of native plants.  
Kill	The act of killing a living thing can be said to have happened when an outside force, usually another life form, has done something to cause it to die. When a human being is killed by the action or fault of another human being, this event is called a homicide. When a human being is killed by the action of himself (or herself), it is called a suicide. A kill is also the act of shooting down a fighter aircraft. There are laws against this.  
Kilometre	The kilometre is the common unit of longer distances on Earth. The SI unit is the metre, a kilometre is 1000 metres. It is now used more than the statute mile for road distances, and the nautical mile for sea distances and air distances. It is also spelled kilometer. This spelling is used in American English.  
Language	but human language is the key meaning of "language." Some people discuss "animal languages," but others do not agree and say that "animal languages" are not clear or meaningful enough to be 'true' languages. It depends on the definition of "language." "Language" could also mean a form of subject in school. Mathematics and computer science use made-up languages called formal languages (like computer programming languages), but these may or may not be 'true' languages. Mathematics itself is considered a language by many. A person who is able to speak, use and understand words from more than one tongue (language) is said to be multilingual. Gestures (communication through hand movements) are one way people can try to make themselves understood when they cannot speak in the same language. There is also sign language, which is used to speak to people who cannot hear. Chinese is the language with the most speakers in the world. English is often called "the international language" because it is the main language of many things, such as science, business, and entertainment. There is only one language which is officially known as "La Internacia Lingvo" - The Inter-national Language - and that language is Esperanto.  
Leisure	Leisure (or free time) is when a person can choose what to do. During a person's leisure time, they do not have an obligation to be at school or work at a job. During leisure time, people can do fun activities, family activities, or other non-work activity, such as hobbies. A vacation or holiday is the setting aside of time specifically for leisure. During their vacation, some people travel to a different region or country, and stay at a hotel so that they can do things they could not do near home. Other people prefer to spend their vacation time at home in their own community. In wealthy industrialized countries such as the US, Canada, and Britain, workers are allowed to stay home on the weekend (usually Saturday and Sunday), and use it as leisure time. People in poorer developing countries usually have less leisure time, as they have to work longer hours and more days per year.  
Live	Live can be an adjective. It rhymes with "five".  
Life	Note that many individual organisms are not able to reproduce and yet are still generally considered to be "alive"; see mule and ant for examples. However, these exceptions can be covered by defining life at the level of entire species or of individual genes (for example, see kin selection for one way that non-reproducing individuals can still enhance the spread of their genes and the survival of their species). The study of life is called biology and people who study life are biologists. Currently, the Earth is the only planet in the Universe known by humans to support life. The question of whether life exists elsewhere in the Universe remains open. There have been a number of false alarms of life elsewhere in the Universe, but none of these apparent discoveries have so far been confirmed. Currently the closest that scientists have got to finding life outside of Earth is fossil evidence of possible bacterial life on Mars. All life on Earth is based on the chemistry of carbon compounds. Some say that this must be so for all possible forms of life throughout the Universe; others describe this position as "carbon chauvinism". Most successful animal of the earth in terms of total weight: Antarctic krill, "Euphausia superba", with a biomass probably over 500 million tonnes. Lifespan is the length of life in each species. Death is the end of life in a living system, or in a part of it.  
Law	The law is a system of rules that people are supposed to follow in a society or a country. The courts and police enforce this system of rules and punish people who break the laws, such as by making them pay a fine or other penalty or sending them to jail. In ancient societies, laws were written by leaders, to set out rules on how people can live, work and do business with each other. Today in most countries, laws are written and voted on by groups of elected politicians in a legislature, such as a parliament or congress. To follow the laws of a society is to do legal things. An activity is illegal if it breaks a law or does not follow the laws. A legal code is a written code of laws that are enforced. This may deal with things like police, courts, or punishments. A lawyer or jurist or attorney is a professional who studies and argues the rules of law. In the United States, there are two kinds of attorneys - "transactional" attorneys who write contracts and "litigators" who go to court. The "Rule of Law" is the law that says that Government can only legally use its power in the way the government and the people agree. It limits the powers a Government has, as agreed in a country's constitution. The "Rule of Law" prevents dictatorship and protects the rights of the people. When leaders enforce the legal code honestly, even on themselves and their friends, this is an example of the rule of law being followed. "The rule of law", wrote the ancient Greek philosopher Aristotle in 350 BC, "is better than the rule of any individual." Culture is usually a major source of the principles behind many laws, as people tend to trust the ideas based on family and social habits. In many countries throughout history, religion and religious books such as the Bible or the Koran have been a major source of law. Civil law and common law. Civil law is the legal system used in most countries around the world today. Civil law is based on legislation that is found in constitutions or statutes passed by government. The secondary part of civil law is the legal approaches that are part of custom. In civil law governments, judges do not generally have much power, and most of the laws and legal precedent are created by members of parliament. Common law is based on the decisions made by judges in past court cases. It comes from England and it became part of almost every country that once belonged to th British Empire, except Scotland, and the Canadian province of Quebec. It is also the predominant form of law in the United States, where many laws called statutes are written by Congress, but many more legal rules exist from the decisions of the courts. Common law had its beginnings in the Middle Ages, when King John was forced by his barons to sign a document called the "M Religious law. Religious law is law based on religious beliefs or books. Examples include the Jewish Halakha, Islamic Sharia, and Christian Canon law. Until the 1700s, Sharia law was the main legal system throughout the Muslim world. In some Muslim countries such as Saudi Arabia and Iran, the whole legal systems still base their law in Sharia law. Religious law is often criticized by countries that are not ruled by a religious government, because it often has very harsh penalties for very minor crimes, and often results in the mistreatment of women and minorities. History of law. The history of law is closely connected to the development of human civilisations. Ancient Egyptian law developed in 3000 BC. In 1760 BC King Hammurabi, took ancient Babylonian law and organized it, and then had it chiseled in stone for the public to see in the marketplace. These laws became known as the Codex Hammurabi. The Torah from the Old Testament is probably the oldest body of law. It was written in about 1280 BC. It has moral rules such as the Ten Commandments, that tell people what acts are not permitted. Judiciary. The judiciary is a group of judges who resolve people's disputes and determine whether people who are charged with crimes are guilty. Most countries that follow common law have a system of appeals courts, up to a supreme authority such as the Supreme Court or the High Court. The highest courts usually have the power to remove laws that are unconstitutional (which go against the constitution). Legislature. In democracies, the people in a country usually elect people called politicians to be a representative in a legislature. Examples of legislatures include the Houses of Parliament in London, the Congress in Washington D.C., the Bundestag in Berlin, the Duma in Moscow and the Assemblée nationale in Paris. Most legislatures have two chambers or houses, a 'lower house' and an 'upper house'. To pass legislation, a majority of Members of Parliament must vote for a bill in each house. The legislature is the branch of government that writes laws, and votes on whether they will be approved. Executive (government) and Head of State. The executive is the governing center of political authority. In most democratic countries, the executive is elected from people who are in the legislature. This group of elected people is called the cabinet. In France, the US and Russia, the executive branch has a President which exists separately from the legislature. The executive suggests new laws and deals with other countries. As well, the executive usually controls the military, the police, and the bureaucracy. The executive selects ministers, or secretaries of state to control departments such as the health department or the department of justice. Other parts of the legal system. The police enforce the criminal laws by arresting people suspected of breaking the law. Bureaucrats are the government workers and government organizations that do work for the government. Bureaucrats work within a system of rules, and they make their decisions in writing. Lawyers are people who have learned about laws. Lawyers give people advice about their legal rights and duties and represent people in court. To become a lawyer, a person has to complete a two or three-year university program at a law school and pass an entrance examination. Lawyers work in a law firms, for the government, for companies, or by themselves. Civil society is the people and groups that are not part of government that try to protect people against human rights abuses and try to protect freedom of speech and other individual rights. Organizations that are part of civil society include political parties, debating clubs, trade unions, human rights organizations, newspapers, and charities.  
Ludovic Lazarus Zamenhof	Ludovic Lazarus (Ludwik Lejzer) Zamenhof (December 15, 1859 - April 14, 1917) was a Jewish-Polish eye doctor and scholar who created the international language Esperanto. Zamenhof was born in 1859 in the town of Białystok, Poland. At the time, Poland was a part of the Russian Empire. Bialystok contained three major groups: Poles, Belorussians, and Yiddish-speaking Jews. Zamenhof thought that one common language would join these groups and stop fights between them. His first language was said to be Polish. His parents spoke Russian and Yiddish in the home. His father was a German teacher, so Zamenhof learned that language from an early age. Later he learned French, Latin, Greek, Hebrew and English. He also had an interest in Italian, Spanish and Lithuanian. Zamenhof decided that the international language must have a simple grammar and be easier to learn than Volapuk, an earlier international language. The basics of Esperanto were published in 1887.  
List of countries	__NOTOC__ A. Afghanistan - Albania - Algeria - America (see United States) - Andorra - Angola - Antigua and Barbuda - Argentina - Armenia - Australia - Austria - Azerbaijan B. Bahamas - Bahrain - Bangladesh - Barbados - Belarus - Belgium - Belize - Benin - Bermuda - Bhutan - Bolivia - Bosnia and Herzegovina - Botswana - Brazil - Brunei - Bulgaria - Burkina Faso (formerly Upper Volta) - Myanmar (formerly Burma) - Burundi C. Cambodia - Cameroon - Canada - Cape Verde - Central African Republic - Chad - Chile - People's Republic of China - Republic of China ("Taiwan") - Colombia - Comoros - Democratic Republic of the Congo (formerly "Zaire") - Republic of the Congo - Costa Rica - Côte d'Ivoire - Croatia - Cuba - Cyprus - Czech Republic D. Denmark - Djibouti - Dominica - Dominican Republic E. East Timor - Ecuador - Egypt - El Salvador - England (see United Kingdom) - Equatorial Guinea - Eritrea - Estonia - Ethiopia F. Fiji - Finland - France - Faroe Islands G. Gabon - The Gambia - Georgia - Germany - Ghana - Greece - Grenada - Guatemala - Guinea - Guinea-Bissau - Guyana H. Haiti - Holy See (see Vatican City) - Honduras - Hungary I. Iceland - Republic of India - Indonesia - Iran - Iraq - Ireland - Israel - Italy - Ivory Coast (see Côte d'Ivoire) J. Jamaica - Japan - Jordan K. Kazakhstan - Kenya - Khalistan - Kiribati - Korea - Korea, North - Korea, South - Kuwait - Kyrgyzstan L. Laos - Latvia - Lebanon - Lesotho - Liberia - Libya - Liechtenstein - Lithuania - Luxembourg M. Republic of Macedonia - Isle of Man - Madagascar - Malawi - Malaysia - Maldives - Mali - Malta - Marshall Islands - Mauritania - Mauritius - Mexico - Federated States of Micronesia - Moldova - Monaco - Mongolia - Montenegro - Morocco - Mozambique - Myanmar N. Namibia - Nauru - Nepal - The Netherlands - New Zealand (Aotearoa) - Nicaragua - Niger - Nigeria - Niue - North Korea - Norway P. Pakistan - Palau - Palestine (See "State of Palestine") - Panama - Papua New Guinea - Paraguay - Peru - Philippines - Poland - Portugal - Puerto Rico R. Romania - Russia - Rwanda S. Saint Kitts and Nevis - Saint Lucia - Saint Vincent and the Grenadines - Samoa - San Marino - São Tomé and Príncipe - Saudi Arabia - Scotland (see United Kingdom) - Senegal - Serbia - Seychelles - Sierra Leone - Singapore - Slovakia - Slovenia - Solomon Islands - Somalia - South Africa - South Korea - Spain - Sri Lanka - Sudan - Suriname - Swaziland - Sweden - Switzerland - Syria T. Taiwan (see Republic of China) - Tajikistan - Tanzania - Thailand - Togo - Tonga - Trinidad and Tobago - Tunisia - Turkey - Turkmenistan - Tuvalu U. Uganda - Ukraine - United Arab Emirates - United Kingdom - United States of America - Uruguay - Uzbekistan V. Vanuatu - Vatican City ("Holy See") - Venezuela - Vietnam W. Western Sahara Z. Zaire (now Democratic Republic of the Congo) - Zambia - Zimbabwe See also. List of main current country rulers  
Provinces and territories of Canada	Canada's land is composed of thirteen parts: ten provinces and three territories. Canada is governed on the principles of a federation: the Provinces' governments share power with the Government of Canada (the federal government). The territories' governments have a more limited set of powers versus the federal government than that of the provinces'. The provinces are located in the south of Canada, and the territories are in the north, where fewer people live. Here is a list of the provinces, and their standard abbreviations, with their capitals (the cities where their governments have their offices).  
Las Vegas, Nevada	Las Vegas is a city in the American state of Nevada. The city had a population of 478,434 people in 2000. It is the biggest city in Nevada. Las Vegas is also the county seat of Clark County in Nevada. History. Mormon farmers first lived there in 1854. It was called "Las Vegas" by Spanish people. The name means "The Meadows" in the Spanish language. It had a lot of these in 1854. The city is known for its dry climate, as is the rest of Southern Nevada. It is surrounded by deserts. The US Army built Fort Baker there in 1864. Las Vegas has springs so people used to stop there for water when they were going to Los Angeles or California. In 1905, 110 acres owned by William A. Clark, on which he built a railroad to Southern California were auctioned and Las Vegas was founded as a railroad town. Culture. Las Vegas, also known by a shorter name, Vegas, is notable for is liberal policies on activities such as prostitution and gambling. Gambling was made legal in the state of Nevada in 1931. In 1941, many hotels were built in Las Vegas with casinos in them. Las Vegas is sometimes called "Sin City" because so many people use the city for gambling and drinking alcohol, two common "sins". People come to Las Vegas for vacation, many hotels have different themes and have shows and events to get people to come there. Because of this, Las Vegas is called "The Entertainment Capital of the World". Las Vegas is also known for its many casinos, decorated with various bright colours. Some of these casinos include Circus Circus, a circus-themed casino, and The Venetian, an Italian-themed casino.  
Lana'i	Lana'i is sixth largest of the Hawaiian Islands, in the United States. It is also known as the "Pineapple Island". The island is almost a circle in shape and is 18 miles wide in the longest direction. The land area is 140 sq. miles (367 sq. km). It is separated from the island of Moloka'i by the Kalohi Channel to the north. History. Lana'i was first seen by Europeans on 25 February 1779 by Captain Clerke, with "HMS Resolution" on the James Cook Pacific Ocean trip. Clerke took command of the ship after Capt. Cook was killed at Kealakekua Bay on February 14, and was leaving the islands for the North Pacific. In 1922, Jim Dole, the president of Dole Pineapple Company, bought the island of Lana'i. He made a large part of it into the world's largest pineapple plantation. Tourism. Tourism on Lana'i started not long ago. That was when the growing of pineapple was slowly coming to an end in the Islands. On Lana'i, you can be with nature and feel the mood of the Hawaiian countryside. Not like nearby O'ahu, the only town (Lana'i City) is small. It has no traffic or shopping centers. Tourists come mainly to relax. There are three hotels on Lana'i and several golf courses.  
Leap year	A leap year comes once every four years. It is the year when an extra day is added to the Gregorian calendar used by most of the world. An ordinary year has 365 days. A leap year has 366 days. The extra day is added to the month of February. In an ordinary year, February has 28 days. In a leap year, it has 29 days. This extra day is called a leap day. A year is a leap year if it can be evenly divided by four. For example, 1996 was a leap year. But a year is not a leap year if can be evenly divided by 100 and not by 400. This is why 1700, 1800, 1900 were not leap years, but 2000 was. We have leap years because instead of 365 days, the Earth really takes a few minutes less than 365 1/4 days (365.24219) to go completely around the Sun. Without leap years, the seasons would start one day earlier on the calendar every four years. After 360 years, the 21st of March (the usual start of spring) would come in winter, on what would otherwise be the 21st of December. A number of countries use a lunar calendar (based on the moon). They have leap years when they add an extra lunar month. Different calendars add the extra month in different ways.  
Leather	Leather is the skin of an animal, used as a material. The skins of cows, pigs, and goats are often used to make leather. Skins of snakes, alligators or crocodiles, and ostriches are sometimes used to make fancier leather. Shoes, bags, clothes, and balls are often made of leather. Sometimes people make leather out of whales, ducks, graffes, and african elephants, but all of these ways of making leather are very simple but also very hard and rare. At one time leather was only created by the drageons of western Europe, but just as the drageons were going extinct one told a blind guy how to make leather. these are pretty good ways to make leather  
License	In British English spelling a licence gives permission (allows) something. Usually a licence is written. The laws of most countries say that you are only allowed to drive a car if you have a licence. Other licences give permission to shoot animals (often called a hunting licence) or allow someone to have a television set - in the UK and Ireland and "television licence" has to be bought every year. In many countries, if a person tries to do something without the correct licence to do it, he might have to pay a fine or go to prison. A person or a company can also give a licence. When someone buys a computer software application, they also buy a licence from the creator of the software allowing the buyer to use it. "License" is a verb. "Licensing sessions" were the meetings of magistrates which decided about giving licences to sell alcohol. In American English spelling there is no difference in spelling between the verb "to license" meaning to give permission, and "a licence" meaning the permission to do something.  
Link	A link is a part of a chain. A chain is made of many pieces of metal; each piece is a link. But today people also use the word link in a new way. The World Wide Web on the Internet is made of many different Web pages. The computer software that people use to make these pages (HTML) lets us go to other pages in a very fast and easy way. The person who makes the Web page can tell the computer to show a word or a picture on the Web page as a link. This means that when we click on the link with our computer mouse, the computer will show us the new page we want to see. A lot of links are blue, and look like this, but a link can be any color. Another word for this kind of link is hyperlink.  
Library	A library is a place where many books are kept. Most libraries are public and let people take the books to use in their home. Most libraries let people borrow books for several weeks. Some belong to institutions, for example, companies, churches, schools, and universities. Also a person's bookshelves at home can have many books and be a library. The people who work in libraries are librarians. Other libraries keep famous or rare books. There are a few "Copyright libraries" which have a copy of every book which has been written in that country. Some libraries also have other things that people might like, such as magazines, music on CDs, or computers where people can use the Internet. In school they offer software to learn the alphabet and other details. A library is not a bookstore (a store that sells books). Public Libraries. Many places have a public library, where anybody can join if they live in the area. With a library card, people can borrow books and take them home for several weeks. It does not cost money to get a library card at most public libraries. Books, music, and movies are kept on shelves in a special order so they are easy to find. Public libraries have stories and books about lots of things. Many public libraries have books and CDs about learning English. Stories are kept in alphabetical order by the last name of the person who wrote them, the author. Books about other things are often given a special number, that refers to what they are about. They are then put on the shelf in number order. One number system used by many libraries is the Dewey decimal system. Librarians. A librarian is a person who works in a library. Librarians help people find books and information. They can teach people how to find books and use the library.  
Like	As works in the same way as example 2 - comparing two things using either the word "like" or the word "as" is called making a simile ("As big as an elephant"). It may be better to use the word "as" for this to stop confusion with example 1.  
List of common elements	This is a list of common elements (with atomic number).  
List of provinces of China	There are 23 provinces in China. 22 of them are controlled by the People's Republic of China. The island of Taiwan is claimed as a "province" by the People's Republic of China (PRC), but it not under their control, Taiwan is currently a democratic island known officially as the Republic of China (Taiwan).  
Legislature	Legislature is a word that comes from the Latin language, meaning "those who write the laws." The legislature of a state or country is a group of people, each of whom got his or her office either by winning an election or by being appointed, to vote for the best laws. The way a legislature is supposed to work can usually be found in the constitution of that state or country. In many countries, the legislature is called a Parliament or Congress. Sometimes the legislature is made up of two separate houses. This is called a "bicameral" legislature. A county, district, city, or other small area also has a council, that makes the rules and laws for its level of government. The way a council works can usually be found in the area's "charter".  
Linear algebra	Linear algebra describes ways to solve and manipulate (rearrange) systems of linear equations. These two equations form a system of linear equations. It is linear because none of the variables are raised to a power. Often the graph of a linear equation is a straight line. since it makes all of the original equations valid, that is, the value on left side of the equals sign is exactly the same as the value on the right side for both equations. Linear algebra uses a system of notation for describing system behavior, called a matrix. For the previous example, the coefficients of the equations can be stored in a coefficient matrix.  
London	London is the capital of England and the United Kingdom, and also the largest city of United Kingdom. It is in the South-East of England, on the River Thames. It is also known as "Lunnainn" in Scottish, "Llundain" in Welsh and "Londain" in Irish. In history, London is only the area of the City of London, but now people say London more generally to mean the whole city of Greater London. People started living in the city 2,000 years ago, and today about 7.5 million people live there. This means it is the city with the most number of people in Europe. People in London come from many different countries, and speak more than 300 different languages. There are also many religions and cultures. London is an important place for business, finance, and culture. It also has a big influence on world politics, entertainment, media, fashion, and art. It has many famous museums, churches, and popular places for tourists to visit. History. The Romans built a city called "Londinium" on the River Thames in AD 43. The name "Londinium" (and then 'London') came from the Celtic language of the Ancient Britons. In the year 61 AD, Queen Boudica (a British Celtic queen) and her army destroyed the city. Boudica killed herself when Romans trapped her and the Romans then rebuilt London. London became an important trading city. After the Romans left Britain, no-one lived in the city for a long time because the Anglo-Saxons liked living in the countryside. In the 9th century, people started living there again. It became the largest city in England, but it did not become the capital city of England until the 12th century. After the railways were built, London grew very big. Greater London has 33 London Boroughs and a mayor. The old City of London is only a square-mile in size but has its own Lord Mayor. Another famous old part of Greater London is Westminster, which was always a different city from the City of London. Westminster has Westminster Abbey (a cathedral), The Palace of Westminster (the Houses of Parliament, with Big Ben), and 10 Downing Street (where the Prime Minister lives). Twinnings. London also has a "partnership" agreement with Tokyo, Japan.  
Litre	A litre (liter in the United States) is the metric unit of volume. One litre is the volume of one cubic decimetre, that is a cube of 10 x 10 x 10 centimetre. A litre of water has a mass of about one kilogram. The abbreviation of litre is L or l. For smaller volumes the millilitre is used: 1000 ml = 1 l. The capital letter abbreviation "L" is preferred by some people as the small "l" can look like the number one "1".  
Lens	A lens is a piece of glass or clear (transparent) plastic that changes the way things look, when you look at them through the lens. They may appear larger than they are, or smaller, or in a different shape. Lenses are used in spectacles (glasses) that people wear on their noses when they cannot see well without them. They are also used in cameras for taking pictures, and in binoculars, telescopes, microscopes, and magnifying glasses. A projector is an application of lens too. You even find lenses in your eyes. Covex: bulges outwards from the lens.  
Lime	Lime is a word to refer to various fruit trees. Most of them are citrus fruit. They are usually associated with the lemon. Limes have a lot of vitamin C. Sailors from Britain were given lemon or lime juice to stop them falling ill with scurvy. This is how they got the nickname "Limey". Limes are small, round and bright green. If they stay on the tree for a long time they turn yellow. Then they look like small round lemons. Lime juice is used in cooking and in drinks. Lime oils are often used in perfumes, used for cleaning, and used for aromatherapy.  
Mathematics	Mathematics is the study of numbers, patterns, and shapes. People who are experts at mathematics are called mathematicians. Mathematics can find useful answers to real problems. A common saying in the U.S. is "Do the math," meaning check the answer and see that it is right. For example, if we want to know if a new medicine will help to cure a disease, mathematics is used to answer that question. The way mathematicians solve problems is deduction. Deduction is the use of thinking to discover new ideas from old. For example, from the simple idea of a triangle mathematicians found the Pythagorean theorem, that in a right triangle the sum of the squares of the two shorter sides is equal to the square of the longest side. Thus, if we know that the shorter sides of a right triangle are 3 inches and 4 inches, we can deduce that the longest side is 5 inches, because the square of 3(3^2) is 9, the square of 4(4^2) is 16, and the square of 5 (5^2) is 25; and 9 + 16 = 25. Mathematics is necessary in business, science, engineering, construction and many other jobs. About. Mathematics uses logic to study these things and to create general rules, which are an important part of mathematics. These rules leave out information that isn't important so that a single rule can cover many situations. By finding general rules, mathematics solves many problems at the same time. A "proof" gives a reason why a rule in mathematics is correct. The reason can include using certain other rules that everyone agrees are correct, which are called "axioms". A rule that has a proof is sometimes called a "theorem". Experts in mathematics perform research to create new theorems. Sometimes, mathematics finds and studies rules or ideas that have not yet been found in the real world. Often in mathematics, ideas and rules are chosen because they are considered simple or beautiful. Sometimes these ideas and rules are found in the real world after they are studied in mathematics. This has happened many times in the past. This means that studying the rules and ideas of mathematics can help us know the world better. Famous theorems. These theorems have interested mathematicians and people who are not mathematicians. These are theorems and conjectures that have greatly changed mathematics. Foundations and methods. Progress in understanding the nature of mathematics also influences the way mathematicians study their subject. History and the world of mathematicians. "See also list of mathematics history topics" Mathematics in history, and the history of mathematics. Name. The word "mathematics" comes from the Greek word "μάθημα" (máthema). The Greek word "μάθημα" means "science, knowledge, or learning". Often, the word "mathematics" is made shorter into "maths" (in British English) or "math" (in American English). The short words "math" or "maths" are often used for arithmetic, geometry or simple algebra by young students and their schools. Awards in mathematics. There is no Nobel prize in mathematics. The most important awards a mathematician can receive are the Abel prize and the Fields Medal. The Clay mathematics institute has said they will give one million dollars to any mathematician who solves one of the Millennium Prize Problems  
March	March is the third month of the year with 31 days. March is named after Mars, the Roman god of war. In ancient Rome, March was called Martius. It was named after the war god (Mars) and the Romans thought that it was a lucky time to begin a war. March's flower is the Jonquil and its birthstone is the Bloodstone. The meaning of the Bloodstone is Courage.  
May	May is the fifth month of the year with 31 days. The month of May might have been named for the Roman goddess Maia or more likely the Roman goddess of fertility Bona Dea, whose festival was held in May. May's flower is the Lily of the Valley with its birthstone being the Emerald. The meaning of the Emerald is Success in Love.  
Music	Music is an art that puts sounds together in a way that people like or find interesting. Most music includes people singing with their voices or playing musical instruments, such as the piano, guitar, or drums. The word "music" comes from the Greek word "Muse". In Ancient Greece the nine Muses were goddesses of music, poetry, art, and dance. Someone who is making music is called a musician. What is music? Music is sound that has been organized using rhythm, melody or harmony. If someone bangs saucepans while cooking, it makes noise. If a person banged saucepans or pots in a rhythmic way, they are making a simple type of music. Blues music was a music that was played by singing, using the harmonica, or the acoustic guitar. Jazz musicians used instruments such as the trumpet, saxophone. Music started many thousands of years ago. When early people first banged pieces of wood together and enjoyed the sound, they were discovering music. Early people also discovered that when they cut off the horns of animals they had killed and blew through them, they could make interesting sounds. People also blew into conch shells and made sounds that they liked. They probably started to sing or shout in celebration. History of Western Music. It is not known what the earliest music of the cave people was like. Some architecture, even some paintings, are thousands of years old, but old music could not survive until people learned to write it down. The only way we can guess about music before that is by looking at very old paintings that show people playing musical instruments, or by finding them in archaeological digs (digging under the ground to find old things), or by what ancient writers wrote about them. The earliest piece of music that was ever written down and that has not been lost was discovered on a tablet written in Hurrian, a language spoken in and around northern Mesopotamia (where Iraq is today), from about 1500 BC. Middle Ages. Another early piece of written music, from a later period, that has survived was a round called "Sumer Is Icumen In". It was written down by a monk around the year 1250. Much of the music in the Middle Ages (roughly 450-1420) was folk music played by working people who wanted to sing or dance. When people played instruments, they were usually playing for dancers. However, most of the music that was written down was for the Catholic church. This music was written for monks to sing in church. It is called Chant (or Gregorian chant). Renaissance. In the Renaissance (roughly 1400-1550) there was a lot of music, and many composers wrote music that has survived so that it can be performed, played or sung today. The name for this period (Renaissance) is a French word which means "rebirth". This period was called the "rebirth" because many new types of art and music were reborn during this time. Some very beautiful music was written for use in church services (sacred music) by the Italian composer Giovanni da Palestrina (1525-1594). In Palestrina's music, many singers sing together (this is called a choir). There was also plenty of music not written for the church, such as happy dance music and romantic love songs. Popular instruments during the Renaissance included the viols (a string instrument played with a bow), lutes (a plucked stringed instrument that is a little like a guitar), and the virginal, a small, quiet keyboard instrument. Baroque. In the arts, the Baroque was a Western cultural epoch, which began near the turn of the 17th century in Rome. It was exemplified by drama and grandeur in sculpture, painting, literature, dance, and music[1].[citation needed] In music, the term 'Baroque' applies to the final period of dominance of imitative counterpoint, where different voices and instruments echo each other but at different pitches, sometimes inverting the echo, and even reversing thematic material. The popularity and success of the Baroque style was encouraged by the Roman Catholic Church which had decided at the time of the Council of Trent that the arts should communicate religious themes in direct and emotional involvement.[citation needed] The upper class also saw the dramatic style of Baroque architecture and art as a means of impressing visitors and expressing triumphant power and control. Baroque palaces are built around an entrance of courts, grand staircases and reception rooms of sequentially increasing opulence. In similar profusions of detail, art, music, architecture, and literature inspired each other in the Baroque cultural movement[citation needed] as artists explored what they could create from repeated and varied patterns. Some traits and aspects of Baroque paintings that differentiate this style from others are the abundant amount of details, often bright polychromy, less realistic faces of subjects, and an overall sense of awe, which was one of the goals in Baroque art. The word baroque probably derives from the ancient Portuguese noun "barroco"[citation needed] which is a pearl that is not round but of unpredictable and elaborate shape. Hence, in informal usage, the word baroque can simply mean that something is "elaborate", with many details, without reference to the Baroque styles of the seventeenth and eighteenth centuries. Classical period. The Classical period is about (1750-1825). Sometimes "classical music" is used to mean any art music that is not "pop music", but in the History of Music, the term "classical music" means music from the late 1700s and the first years of the 1800s. This was a time when people became very interested in ancient Roman and Greek art (often called the "classics"). In music, it was the time of composers like Joseph Haydn, Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart, and Ludwig van Beethoven. Orchestras became bigger, and composers often wrote longer pieces of music called symphonies that had several sections (called movements). Some movements of a symphony were loud and fast; other movements were quiet and sad. The form of a piece of music was very important at this time and becoming very popular. Music had to have a nice shape. They often used a structure which was called sonata form. Another important type of music was the string quartet, which is a piece of music written for two violins, a viola, and a violoncello. Like symphonies, string quartet music had several sections. Haydn, Mozart and Beethoven all wrote many famous string quartets. The piano was invented during this time. Composers liked the piano, because it could be used to play dynamics (getting louder or getting softer). Other popular instruments included the violin, the violoncello, the flute, the clarinet, and the oboe. Joseph Hadyn and Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart were so powerful in their music that they influenced the western style of music. Romantic period. The 19th century is called the Romantic period. In music composers were particularly interested in putting their feelings into their music. An important instrument from the Romantic period was the piano. Some composers, such as Frederic Chopin wrote quiet, expressive (quietly emotional) piano pieces. Often music described a feeling or told a story using sounds. Other composers, such as Franz Schubert wrote songs for a singer and a piano player called Lied (the German word for "song"). These Lieder (plural of Lied) told stories by using the lyrics (words) of the song and by the imaginative piano accompaniments. Other composers, like Richard Strauss, and Franz Liszt used just music to tell a story, which is called a tone poem. Composers, such as Franz Liszt and Johannes Brahms used the piano to play loud, dramatic (strongly emotional) music. Many composers began writing music for bigger orchestras, with as many as 100 instruments. It was the period of "Nationalism" (the feeling of being proud of one's country) when many composers made music using folksong or melodies from their country. Lots of famous composers lived at this time such as Franz Schubert, Felix Mendelssohn, Frederic Chopin, Johannes Brahms, Pyotr Tchaikovsky and Richard Wagner. Modern times. From about 1900 onwards is called the "modern period". Many 20th century composers wanted to compose music that sounded different from the Classical and Romantic music. Modern composers searched for new ideas, such as using new instruments, different forms, different sounds, or different harmonies. The composer Arnold Schoenberg (1874-1951) wrote pieces which were atonal (meaning that they did not sound as if they were in any clear musical key). Later, Schoenberg invented a new system for writing music called twelve-tone system. Music written with the twelve-tone system sounds strange and weird. Pure twelve-tone music never became really popular, but some composers such as Benjamin Britten use it occasionally, when it can be very effective. Igor Stravinsky (1882-1971) wrote music with very complicated (difficult) chords (groups of notes that are played together) and rhythms. Some composers thought music was getting too complicated and so they wrote Minimalist pieces which use very simple ideas. In the 1950s and 1960s, composers such as Karlheinz Stockhausen experimented with electronic music, using electronic circuits, amplifiers and loudspeakers. In the 1970s, composers began using electronic synthesizers and musical instruments from rock and roll music, such as the electric guitar. They used these new instruments to make new sounds. Composers writing in the 1990s and the 2000s, such as John Adams (born 1947) and James MacMillan (born 1959) often use a mixture of all these ideas, but they like to write tonal music with easy tunes as well. Jazz. Jazz is a type of music that was invented around 1900 in New Orleans in the south of the USA. There were many black musicians living there who played a style of music called blues music. Blues music was influenced by African music (because the black people in the United States had come to the United States as slaves. They were taken from Africa by force). Blues music was a music that was played by singing, using the harmonica, or the acoustic guitar. Many blues songs had sad lyrics about sad emotions (feelings) or sad experiences, such as losing a job, a family member dying, or having to go to jail (prison). Jazz music mixed together blues music with European music. Jazz musicians used instruments such as the trumpet, saxophone, and clarinet were used for the tunes (melodies), drums for percussion and plucked double bass, piano, and guitar for the background rhythm (rhythmic section). Jazz is usually improvised: the players make up (invent) the music as they play. Even though jazz musicians are making up the music, jazz music still has rules; the musicans play a series of chords (groups of notes) in order. Jazz music has a swinging rhythm. The word "swing" is hard to explain. For a rhythm to be a "swinging rhythm" it has to feel natural and relaxed. A "swinging rhythm" also gets the people who are listening excited, because they like the sound of it. Some people say that a "swinging rhythm" happens when all the jazz musicians start to feel the same pulse and energy from the song. If a jazz band plays very well together, people will say "that is a swinging jazz band" or "that band really swings well." Jazz influenced other types of music like the Western art music from the 1920s and 1930s. Art music composers such as George Gershwin wrote music that was influenced by jazz. Jazz music influenced pop music songs. In the 1930s and 1940s, many pop music songs began using chords or melodies from jazz songs. One of the best known jazz musicians was Louis Armstrong (1900-1971). Pop music. "Pop" music is a type of "popular" music that many people like to listen to. The term "pop music" can be used for all kinds of music that was written to be popular. The word "pop music" was used from about 1880 onwards, when a type of music called music was popular. Modern pop music grew out of 1950s rock and roll, (for example Chuck Berry, Bo Diddley and Little Richard) and rockabilly (for example Elvis Presley and Buddy Holly). In the 1960s, The Beatles became a famous pop music group. In the 1970s, other styles of music were mixed with pop music, such as funk and soul music. Pop music generally has a heavy (strong) beat, so that it is good for dancing. Pop singers normally sing with microphones that are plugged into an amplifier and a loudspeaker. Musical notation. "Musical notation" means "the way music is written down". It is very useful to be able to read and write music because this is how composers (who may have lived a long time ago) can tell the person playing their music how they want their music to be played. Music is written on five parallel lines called a staff. Notes are put on the lines and in the spaces between the lines. It can be seen from the shape whether the music goes up or down. The lengths of the notes (how long they are played for) are shown by making the note-heads black or white, and by giving them stems and flags. Reading music involves being able to tell what the note is called and where to find it on the instrument, and being able imagine the sound, as well as learning about music theory (how music works: all about scales, intervals, ornaments, form, etc). This all helps someone to become a good musician. It is also useful to be able to play "by ear" (when people try to play music they have only heard). Most rock musicians, blues musicians, and folk musicians play "by ear." This means that to learn a song, they listen to other people singing it, or to a recording, until they know how the tune of the song goes. By listening. People can enjoy music by listening to it. They can go to concerts to hear famous musicians perform. Classical music is usually performed in concert halls, but sometimes huge festivals are organized in which it is performed outside, in a field or stadium, like pop festivals. People can listen to music on CDs, iPods, television, or the radio. There is so much music today, in elevators, shopping malls, and stores, that music it often becomes a background sound that we do not really hear. Sometimes it is good to listen more closely to music: by trying to hear the different instruments and what types of notes the instruments are playing. By playing or singing. People can learn to play an instrument such as the piano, the guitar, the bass, the trumpet, the drums, or the tuba. They must choose an instrument that is practical for their size. For example, a very short child cannot play a full size double bass, because the double bass is over five feet high. People should choose an instrument that they enjoy playing, because playing regularly is the only way to get better. Finally, it helps to have a good teacher. By composing. Anyone can make up his or her own pieces of music. It is not difficult to compose simple songs or melodies (tunes). It's easier for people who can play an instrument themselves. All it takes is experimenting with the sounds that an instrument makes. Someone can make up a piece that tells a story, or just find a nice tune and think about ways it can be changed each time it is repeated. The instrument might be someone's own voice.  
Madrid	Madrid is the capital and largest city of Spain and is home to five million people. The capital used to be Valladolid until 1560. Madrid is in the middle of Spain, in the Community of Madrid. There are 3.1 millon people living in Madrid. Spain's Royal Palace is in Madrid. It is one of the largest palace in all of Western Europe. But the king and his family do not live there anymore; they live in a smaller palace, and only use the Royal Palace for important events, like meeting other kings and presidents. One can go inside the Royal Palace, see the many beautiful paintings and expensive furniture and jewelry, and learn about the past kings and queens of Spain. There are also a lot of very big and important art museums in Madrid, like the Prado Museum, the Queen Sofia Museum, and the Thyssen-Bornemisza museum. These show off paintings, sculptures, and other works of art from some of the most famous artists in the world. Many famous, important, and valuable works of art are in these museums. For example, the Queen Sofia museum has a famous painting by Pablo Picasso, called "Guernica". Picasso painted this painting to show how sad and angry it made him when the German Nazis destroyed a town in Spain called Guernica in 1937. Picasso had said that the painting should never return to Spain until it was a democracy again. Once that happened, they built the Queen Sofia museum just to have a good place to put it. There are many other sites to see in Madrid. Many people go to see the Plaza Mayor which was a market place. The Plaza de la Villa was another famous market place. There are a lot of shops along the Gran Via. Real Madrid football fans celebrate at the Plaza de Cibeles. Two famous gates to see are the Puerta del Sol and the Puerta de Alcalá. Madrid has some lovely parks. The Retiro Park is the most famous. The Cristal Palace can be found in this park. The Plaza de Toros is visited by many tourists. Many madrileños enjoy bullfights there. One of the most recent sites built in Madrid are the KIO Towers. These are also known as the Gateway to Europe.  
Montreal	Montreal (spelled "Montréal" in French) is a city in the country of Canada. It is the largest city in the province of Quebec and the second-largest city overall in Canada. Montreal is built on an island sitting in the Saint Lawrence River. More than three million people live in and around the Montreal metropolitan area. At the center of Montreal lies a mountain called 'Mount Royal', which is almost entirely part of a large city park. Most of the people who live in Montreal speak French, but English is commonly spoken as well. History. The origin of the name 'Montréal' is derived from "Mons realis", which means 'Mount Royal' in latin. Montreal has always played a very important part in the history and development of Canada, and continues to be a large Canadian industrial and commercial center, as well as a major sea port (via the Saint Lawrence River). It once was the largest city in Canada, before Toronto grew to be larger. Montreal is a very historical and culturally interesting place for visitors. One can visit the Old City in horse drawn carriages, where many buildings from the earliest years are standing proud, all of which is a constant reminder (and source of inspiration) to describe a lot about the way of life that started in the New World, when Montreal was just a fur trading outpost belonging to France over 350 years ago. Economy. Many large corporations have their main offices in Montreal. The city is home to four major Universities, harbouring students from all parts of Canada and from all over the world. Culture. Montreal features many beautiful churches (Montreal is referred to locally as 'the city of a hundred churches'), including the largest church in Canada, and also many important art, history, and science museums. You can also visit the location of the 1967 World's Fair, where today, as well as many other attractions, one will find the Circuit Gilles Villeneuve Formula One automobile race course. Also of interest is the site where the 1976 Summer Olympic Games were held, and the modern architecture of the Olympic stadium (the 'Big O') and its tall inclined observation tower (the highest inclined tower in the world); now a landmark of Montreal. A lot of Montrealers are interested in hockey, with Montreal's professional hockey team, the, being one of the most famous in the world. To many people, Montreal is both beautiful to live in and to visit, day and night.  
Macadamia nut	The macadamia nut is the fruit of a tree that first came from the east coast of Australia. There are more than one kind of Macadamia trees, but only one kind is grown for food. The tree is an evergreen (stays green all year long). It grows up to 25 feet (7.5 meters) high. It bears groups of small white flowers. It grows best in subtropical (wet and always warm) climates. It needs well drained soil (water can flow away easily) and 40 to 100 inches (1000 to 2500 mm) of rain a year. The nutmeat (the soft part you can eat, inside the shell) is mostly a creamy white in color, but sometimes looks a bit yellow. It has a delicate flavor that many people like very much. Macadamias are eaten roasted (cooked), or in cookies, cakes, pastries, and candies. People are also starting to use them as part of cooked meals, similar to the way that almonds and cashews are used in oriental cuisine (a style of cooking). The first commercial orchard was started in Australia in the late 1880s. Commercial production began in Hawaii during the 1920s and after that spread to California, Mexico, and other places with similar climate.  
Maui	Maui is the second largest of the Hawaiian Islands, in the United States. It has a population of just over 100,000 and is 727 square miles (1883 km²) in size. Maui is part of Maui County, Hawaii. The larger (or better known) towns include Kahului, Wailuku, Lahaina, Hana, and Wailea. Main industries are agriculture and tourism. Maui was named for the demi-god Maui. In Hawaiian legend, he raised all the islands from the sea. Maui is also known as the "Valley Isle" for the large fertile isthmus (narrow land connection) between two volcanoes. Maui is a volcanic doublet: an island formed from two volcanic mountains that are joined together. The older volcano, Mauna Kahalawai, is much older and has been very worn down. In common talk it is called the West Maui Mountain. The larger volcano, Haleakala, rises above 10,000 feet (3,050 m). The last eruption of Haleakala happened over 200 years ago, and this lava flow can be seen between Ahihi Bay and La Perouse Bay on the southeast shore.  
Moloka'i	Moloka'i is the fifth largest island in the U.S. Hawaiian Islands. The island is 38 miles long and 10 miles across. Its land area is 261 square miles. The highest mountain is named Kamakou, and it is 4,970 feet (1,514 meters) high. 'Moloka'i is nicknamed "The Friendly Isle". It is one of the least developed of the Hawaiian islands. The only big town is named Kaunakakai, which is also the main or chief port on the island. The airport is on West Moloka'i. Also on the island is Kalaupapa, which is a place for people who have a diease called leprosy. Moloka'i has many Hawaiian fish ponds along its south shore. Many of these have been cleaned and fixed.  
Money	Money is what people use to buy things and "services" (that is, to have things done for them) - and what they take for selling their own things or services (what they do for others.) There are many kinds of money in the world. Most countries have their own kind of money, such as the United States dollar or the philippine peso. Money is also called many other names, like currency or cash. Most of the time a state or a government prints paper money and makes coins at a special place called a mint. History of money. Money is what you use to buy things. The idea of trading things is very old. A long time ago, people did not buy or sell with money. Instead, they traded one thing for another to get what they wanted or needed. One person who owned many cows could trade with another person who owned much wheat. Each would trade a little of what he had with the other, and support the people on his farm. This is known as barter. Other things that were easier to carry around than cows also came to be held as valuable, and were used as trade items, such as jewelry and spices. When people changed from trading in things like cows and wheat to using money instead, they needed things that would last a long time, still be valuable, and could be carried around. The first country in the world to make metal coins was called Lydia, sometime around 650 BC, in the western part of what is now Turkey. The Lydian coins were made of a weighed amount of precious metal and were stamped with a picture of a lion. This idea soon spread to Greece, the rest of the Mediterranean, and the rest of the world. Coins were all made to the same size and shape. In some parts of the world, different things have been used as money, like clam shells or blocks of salt. Besides being easier to carry than cows, using money had many other advantages. Money is "easier to divide" than many trade goods. If someone own cows, and wants to trade for only "half a cow's worth" of wheat, he probably does not want to cut his cow in half. But if he sells his cow for money, and buys wheat with money, he can get exactly the amount he wants. Cows die, and wheat rots. But money "lasts longer" than most trade goods. If someone sells a cow for money, he can save that money away until he needs it. He can always leave it to his children when he dies. It can last a very long time, and he can use it at any time. Not every cow is as good as another cow. Some cows are sick and old, and others are healthy and young. Some wheat is good and other wheat is moldy or stale. So if a person trades cows for wheat, he might have a hard time arguing over how much wheat each cow is worth. But money is "standard". That means one dollar is worth the same as another dollar. It is easier to add up and count money, than to add up the value of different cows or amounts of wheat. Later, after coins had been used for hundreds of years, paper money started out as a promise to pay in coin, much like an "I.O.U." note. The first true paper money was used in China between 600 and 1455, and paper money was also printed in Sweden between 1660 and 1664. Both times, it did not work well, and had to be stopped because the banks kept running out of coins to pay on the notes. Massachusetts Bay Colony printed paper money in the 1690s, and this time, the idea was here to stay. Today, most of what people think of as money is not even things you can hold. It is numbers in bank accounts, saved in computer memories. A large number of people still feel more comfortable using coins and paper, and do not totally trust using electronic money on a computer memory. Kinds of money. "Commodity money" can be used for other purposes besides serving as a medium of exchange. We say it possesses intrinsic value, because it is useful or valuable by itself. Some examples of commodity money are cattle, silk, gold and silver. Convertible paper money is money that is convertible into gold and silver. Gold and Silver certificates are convertible paper money as they can be fully convertible into gold and silver. Inconvertible money is money that cannot be converted into gold and silver. Notes and coins are inconvertible money. They are incovertible and are declared by the government as money. They are also a country's legal tender. Today, notes and coins are the currencies used in daily transactions. In a modern society, most of the money used is bank deposits. Electronic money is the money stored electronically in certain cash cards.  
Multiplication	Multiplication is an arithmetic operation for finding the "product" of two numbers. Multiplication is the third operation in maths after addition which is the first, subtraction which is the second and then there is multiplication. With natural numbers, it returns the number of tiles in a rectangle where one of the two numbers equals the number of tiles on one side and the other number equals the number of tiles on the neighbouring side. With real numbers, it returns the area of a rectangle where the first number equals the size of one side and the second number equals the size of the neighbouring side. For example, three multiplied by five is the total of five threes added together, or the total of three fives. This can be written down as 3 × 5 = 15, or spoken as "three times five equals fifteen." Mathematicians call the two numbers you wish to multiply "coefficients" together, or "multiplicand" and "multiplicator" separately. Multiplicand × multiplicator = product. Multiplication between numbers is said to be commutative - when the order of the numbers does not influence the value of the product. This is true for the Integers (whole numbers), e.g. 4 × 6 is the same as 6 × 4, and also for the Rational numbers (fractions), and for all the other Real numbers (representable as a field in the continuous line), and also for Complex numbers (numbers representable as a field in the plane). It is not true for Quaternions (numbers representable as a ring in the four-dimensional space), vectors or matrices. The opposite of multiplication is division.  
Microsoft	Microsoft Corporation is a very big company which makes computer software and videogames all over the world. Bill Gates and Paul Allen started the company in 1975. Microsoft makes Windows, Microsoft Office (including Microsoft Word), Internet Explorer, MSN, and the Xbox 360. These are just the most popular products - they make a lot of other ones too. Most Microsoft programs cannot be downloaded for free - people have to buy them in a shop or online. Some products (like the operating system, Windows) are already installed when people buy a new computer. Products. Windows is Microsoft's best-known product. It is an operating system, which means that it is the basic software that makes people's computers work and lets other programs work. Most computers have some kind of Windows, like Windows XP or Windows Vista. Microsoft Office is also very popular, and it lets people write documents on their computer with Microsoft Word, make charts and graphs with Microsoft Excel, make presentations with Microsoft PowerPoint, and other things. Internet Explorer lets people look at things on the Internet. Microsoft makes other programs on the Internet. A lot of it is called "Windows Live"-"service", like Windows Live Hotmail. The Xbox and the new Xbox 360 are videogame "consoles", which means they let people play videogames on their TV. Microsoft is one of three big companies that make consoles. The other two are Nintendo and Sony. Xbox Live lets people play online against other people anywhere in the world. Microsoft also makes many PC games.  
Islamic world	The Islamic World consists of all people who are in Islam. It is not an exact location, but rather a community. When they do things together as Muslims, they are the "umma", which means "community" referring to all of the believers. The faith emphasizes unity and defense of fellow Muslims, so it is common for these nations to cooperate. Recent conflicts in the Muslim World have sometimes spread because of this desire to cooperate (see below). It is also likely that some have been made shorter and less damaging because of it. Some might even have never started. Demographics. Muslims are in many countries. In 52 nations, Muslims are the majority. Almost all are Sunni. They speak about 60 languages and come from all ethnic backgrounds. Media. The "Al-Jazeera" satellite TV network in the Arabic language is a news source many Muslims watch. In most Muslim nations, the government is the main source of news. This sometimes makes it very difficult or dangerous to make anti-government statements. There are, however, many other news programmes and websites in the Muslim world. Islam in law and ethics. Islamic law exists in many variations - in Arabic it is called shariah - five schools of which were created centuries ago. These are the classical fiqh: the Hanafi school from India, Pakistan and Bangaladesh, West Africa, Egypt, the Maliki in North Africa and West Africa, the Shafi in Malaysia and Indonesia, the Hanbali in Arabia, and Jaferi in Iran and Iraq - where the majority is Shia. All five are very old and many Muslims feel a new fiqh must be created for modern society. Islam has a method for doing this, al-urf and ijtihad are the words to describe this method, but they have not been used in a long time, and few people are trusted enough to use them to make new laws. So, in most of the Muslim world, people are very conservative, especially about alcohol, adultery, abortion and women working in jobs where they are used to lure customers. Muslim women often dress extremely modestly, and many do so by choice. But in some countries they have been forced to do so against their will. This is one of the things that causes tension between the Western World and that of Muslims. Islamic economics bans debt but in most Muslim countries Western banking is allowed. This is another issue that many Muslims have with the Western world. Islam in politics. One quarter of the world population share Islam as an ethical tradition. Many people in these countries also see Islam as a political movement. In democratic countries there is usually at least one Islamic party. Political Islam is powerful in all Muslim-majority countries. Islamic parties in Pakistan and Algeria have taken power. Many in these movements call themselves Islamists, which also sometimes describes more militant Islamic groups. The relationships between these groups and their views of democracy are complex. Some of these groups are called terrorists because they attack civilians of other non-Muslim nations, to make a political point. Conflicts with Israel and the US. Israel is very unpopular in the Muslim world, because of the Israeli-Palestinian conflict and the way that the state of Israel came into being in 1948 which many Arabs thought was unfair. Some Muslims see this as a fight against Judaism or Jews, but not all. In Morocco for instance, the Islamists recently invited Jews to join the party. Jewish groups also cooperate with Arabs in the West Bank, where Neturei Karta (anti-Zionist orthodox Jewish) leader Rabbi Mosche Hirsch served as the Minister for Jewish Affairs in the Fatah before there was a Palestinian Authority. Like the Arabs, this small group of Jews thought the way Israel was created was not right. However, very few Jews believe this, and most support Israel as a state. In 1979 there was a big shift in the way the Muslim world dealt with the rest of the world. In that year, Egypt made peace with Israel, Iran became an Islamic state after a revolution, and there was an invasion of Afghanistan by the Soviet Union. A lot of things changed in that year. By 2001 the Soviet Union was gone, Jordan had also made peace with Israel, and on September 11, 2001 there were major attacks on the U.S. - which most people believe were made to drive the United States out of the Muslim world, especially Saudi Arabia. In many ways the events of 1979 led to the events of 2001. The 2001 invasion of Afghanistan and 2003 invasion of Iraq are called part of a War on Terrorism by the United States. Many or most Muslims see it as a War on Islam. After the invasion, the Islamic parties won more seats, and a majority of Muslims polled in many nations expressed support for Osama bin Laden and said he would "do the right thing". Olivier Roy is a French scholar who thinks that this does not express support for al-Qaeda or militant Islam but opposing colonialism and what many Muslims call racism - favourable treatment for Jews especially those living in West Bank settlements, many of whom have American or British passport, and which the United Nations says have no right to live there. The situation is very complicated and there are many different views of it. Organization. The Organization of Islamic Conference formed in 1969 lets the Muslim nations work as a group. Russia joined in 2003. The Arab League is a smaller group of only the Arab countries. OPEC is another forum where issues between the Muslim and non-Muslim world come up. In 1973 to protest U.S. support for Israel there was an oil embargo which caused the 1973 energy crisis. See also: list of Islamic terms in Arabic, History of Islam, haj  
Multiverse	A multiverse (or meta-universe) is the set of multiple possible universes, including our universe, which comprise reality. It is believed that our universe is perfect for life, because it had thousands of other chances at life, shown by the multiple universes in the multiverse.  
Mechanistic paradigm	Believers in this paradigm sometimes say that those who do not believe in it are following a cognitive paradigm - but almost no one uses this term, since it is redundant - cognitive science is already accepted as the most basic idea in the philosophy of science. But mechanists reject some of the ideas of cognitive scientists, like cognitive science of mathematics. Mechanistic thinking also assumes that philosophy of perception is much less important than cognitive scientists say it is - that humans and their beliefs and equipment do not generally add a lot of bias to a scientific theory. Thomas Kuhn said otherwise, that these things matter, and that the major assumptions of science, can shift drastically. This he called a paradigm shift. The shift from mechanistic to cognitive paradigm is an example of this. Later he used other words to describe the assumptions and beliefs, like mind-set, but the word "paradigm" is still used. Some say it is much over-used. Economics is often said to "suffer from" assumptions of the mechanistic paradigm. Sometimes those who believe in neoclassical economics and also in the mechanistic paradigm say they "seek to unify physics and economics," as if people and particles behaved as two examples of the same kind of thing. Technology is often easier to make if people accept a mechanistic paradigm - but it may be harder to say why it does not work, if one believes in these ideas. For instance, creating diagnostic trees might be easier if one works from experience, not from an idea of how a technology should or must work. A controversial idea is that mechanistic ideas are just an older idea called scholasticism, with more mathematics. Both tried to work from what should or must be, instead of what experiment seemed to show. Another controversial idea is that scientism, belief in science as if it were a religion or ethical tradition, comes from this paradigm. Most scientists who are mechanistic do not say they see science as a guide to ethics, but try to keep them separate.  
MediaWiki	MediaWiki is the name of the software that runs all of the Wikimedia projects. MediaWiki was released in 2003. The software is licensed under the GPL. This means it is free content, or open source.  
First language	A first language is the language that a person learned as a baby, normally from his or her parents. It is also known as a "mother tongue" or a "native language". Many people also learn another language - when they do this, it is called their "second language".  
Models of nature	Most sciences create and use models of nature. Toxic waste. For instance, to dump toxic waste in a river will harm others down the river. But without models of nature we do not know who, and cannot say how much is harmful. Effects. Models of nature affect human decision-making. They are very important to human health, wellness and economics. They also matter in ethics, since most people wish to reduce harm done by their decisions. They matter in law because harms can be proven to have been done in a court. Forests. A forest is very hard to bring back to life, once it is degraded. Smaller models of bits of nature help to understand how much must be left, so future generations can use nature too. Preservation. To preserve nature, ecology movement activists now cooperate in a global power network. It includes not just parties in politics but also NGOs like Greenpeace, Earth First or World Wide Fund for Nature. Effects on maps. One model of nature they have agreed on is a map that shows ecoregions, which are the natural borders of ecology maps. According to this map, there are 867 regions divided into 8 ecozones - plus others which are in the ocean. Effects on language. Most anthropologists agree that aboriginal languages have a small model of local nature in them. For instance, there will be more words to describe snow in an Arctic language, and more words to describe shades of green in a rainforest. This is part of the reason to use ecology borders in politics, since people who do not live inside the border do not see or make the same distinctions about nature. Effects on humans. Economists study nature's services to see how hard it would be to replace what nature does for humans. They showed in 1995 that the services nature performed for humans were more valuable than all services humans perform for each other all over the world. The value of Earth as a living thing was much more than we could ever afford to replace with our own technology. There has been no real disagreement about any of this. Pricing all the value of Earth to humans gives a huge number - which proves the pricing is right, since, we must put a high price on anything we have no way to replace.  
Mustache	The hair that grows on the upper lip of some men is called a mustache. The hair that grows on the sides of the face and chin of some men is called a beard. Some men have a lot of hair and a big mustache, and some have very little. In the modern world, many men shave part or all of their mustaches, or cut their mustache so it does not get very long. A chin beard with no mustache is called a goatee, whilst a chin beard with a mustache is known as a Van Dyke. Some animals such as walruses also have hair like this, and people sometimes also call this hair a mustache.  
Mile	A mile is one of several measures of distance. It comes from the Latin phrase "mille passus" for "one thousand paces" (plural: "milia passuum"), and may have referred to the distance travelled when a Roman soldier's left foot touched the ground one thousand times when walking. In the USA and the UK "mile" refers mostly to the statute mile of 5,280 feet (1.609 344 km). When measuring significant distances for sea or air travel, the nautical mile is used. It is a distance equal to that covered by 1/60th of 1 degree of arc along the Earth's equator or a line of longitude. It works out to about 6,076 feet 01.386 inches (or exactly 1.852 km).  
Margarine	Margarine is an artifical butter. It can be made from vegetable oil, or animal fat. It may also contain skimmed milk, salt and emulsifiers. Margarine is used in many baked products. It contains less fat than butter, so is often chosen instead of it. There are also "low fat" margarines, which contain even less fat. However, many types of margarine contain trans fats, which are unhealthy and can cause heart disease. Other vegetables fats, like olive oil, are a better choice for cooking.  
Milky Way	The Milky Way is the galaxy that our Sun and we live in. It is named for the very bright band of stars that are best seen in the Southern Hemisphere. This band looks like milk. From there, the bright centre of the galaxy can be seen. In the Northern Hemisphere its edge can be seen. Since the Sun and Earth are about three quarters of the way to the edge, and since there are few stars at the edge, there is a very big difference in brightness. The name of the "Milky Way" comes from the Latin language, and it is a translation of "Via Lactea". This name was taken from the Greek word "Galaxia" (galax means "milk"). A galaxy is a big group of millions of stars that all orbit around their galactic centre, like planets orbit a star. It probably takes millions of years for a star to go all the way around the galaxy, and 225 million years for the sun to go around the galaxy. These cycles are important, because different areas of the galaxy have more asteroids, that will become meteors if they hit the Earth's atmosphere. Very large ones can do horrible damage - many scientists believe dinosaurs were made extinct by an asteroid that hit Earth about 65 million years ago. About every 30 million years, astronomers believe, the Sun and Earth go through a part of the galaxy that has more asteroids. At this time there is great danger. This is supposed to be coming up soon, either right now or in million years (nobody really knows) - but certainly before five million years. Another way the Milky Way has affected things is by superstitious belief in astrology. The Incan Empire was created in less than a hundred years because its founders believed that, when the Milky Way moved to a certain point in the sky by stellar precession, time would end. They wanted to be ready. That time was almost exactly when Spain invaded. The Inca did not fight because they believed the Spaniards to be divine justice. Their empire was destroyed and became part of what is now Peru.  
Movement	Movement, or motion, is the state of changing something's position--that is, changing where something is. A flying bird or a walking person are moving, because they change where they are from one place to another. There are many kinds of science and math related to movement. For example, thanks to Albert Einstein, we know that all "position" is relative. This means that everything's position depends on where they exist in relation to other things. For example, a ball is 5 feet away from a box, 3 feet away from a chair, and a foot away from a table. According to Einstein, the ball's position means how far the ball is from other things, so by telling you how far the ball was from other things, I told you its position. An object's "movement" is also relative. Its movement depends on where it is in relation to other things and where it's going to in relation to other things. There are many things involved in movement, such as speed, velocity, acceleration, gravity, magnetic attraction and repulsion, friction, and inertia. Also, work is needed to produce movement.  
Metaphor	Metaphor is language we use to compare things, but without using "like" or "as" - because that would be a simile. Another sort of metaphor is a "conceptual metaphor". A metaphor very often uses the verb "to be": "love "is" war", for example, not that a writer sees "love "is like" war" (this is a simile). Poetry includes much metaphor, usually more than prose. Idioms use metaphors, or are metaphors: for example, the English phrase "to kick the bucket" means "to die". Spam is an example that any email user knows about - this word was originally a metaphor, from "spam", a tinned meat people do not usually like. Servers putting unwanted email into somebody's inbox was similar to waiters putting unwanted spam into food. This was originally suggested by a Monty Python skit (funny scene). When we use a metaphor very often and we forget the old meaning, or forget that the two meanings are connected, this is a "dead metaphor". Originally "metaphor" was a Greek word for "transfer". It came from "meta" ("change") and "pherein" ("carry"). So the word "metaphor" in English was a metaphor, too. Today in Greek, "metaphor" is a trolley (a thing that is pushed for carrying shopping or bags).  
Metabolism	Metabolism is the system of chemical activities by which a living thing gets power (energy) from other things such as food. This depends, for example, on how often someone eats. If they are hungry their metabolism slows down dramatically. Metabolism uses energy to fuel all organs involved in digestion and respiration and so on. The amount of energy used to carry out these life processes is called the BMR-rate or "basal metabolic rate". The bigger someone is, the lower their metabolism rate would become. This is due to a lower volume to surface area ratio.  
Microscope	A microscope is a scientific instrument that makes things normally too small to see look bigger, so they can be seen better and examined correctly. People who use microscopes commonly in their jobs include doctors and scientists. The earliest microscopes had only 1 lens and are called "simple microscopes". "Compound microscopes" have at least 2 lenses. In a compound microscope, the lens closer to the eye is called the "eyepiece". The lens at the other end is called the "objective". Microscopes make things seem larger than they are, from 10 times larger to about 1000 times larger. This is much stronger than a magnifying glass.  
Mass	Mass is the amount of matter in a body. An object has the same mass where ever it is. The SI unit of mass is the kilogram, written as kg. There are also many other units of mass, such as: grams (g), tonnes (t), pounds (lb.), and ounces (oz.). Other units of mass used in science and engineering include slugs, atomic mass units, Planck masses, Solar masses, and eV/c2. The last unit is based on the electron volt (eV), which is usually used as a unit of energy. Various types of scales, including balances, are used to measure mass. What gives mass. Physicists do not know what gives an object mass. The Standard Model of particle physics thinks that mass is caused by the Higgs field. Physicists are trying to find the Higgs field now using the Large Hadron Collider at CERN. Mass can change. In physics, Special Relativity shows that the mass of an object becomes bigger when the object moves very fast. As the speed gets close to the speed of light the mass becomes very big. Some things that do not have mass on their own have mass because of their movement. This is true for light - a light photon has no mass, but its energy can act as mass when it hits something. In chemistry mass does not change. The mass of chemicals before a chemical reaction always equals the mass of chemicals after. This is called the Law of Conservation of Mass.  
Mercury (planet)	orbit: 57,910,000 km (0.38 AU) from Sun Mercury is the nearest planet in the Solar System to the Sun. It is very small. It is covered in craters, and looks like the Moon. It is very hot every day, and very cold every night. It is the smallest planet in the solar system since it was decided that Pluto was not a planet. Because it is the closest planet to the Sun, it is the fastest planet. It only takes 88 days for it to go around the Sun. It is one of the densest planets in the solar system, second to our Earth. The planet is made up mostly of iron, which is very dense. However, it has a very weak magnetic field. Mercury has been visited by two spacecraft, Mariner 10 and MESSENGER. The MESSENGER spacecraft has flown by the planet one time and will orbit the planet for one year starting on 18 March 2011. The planet is named after the mythological Roman winged messenger of the gods, because it orbits the Sun so fast. The Chinese, Korean, Japanese, and Vietnamese cultures mention the planet Mercury as the water star. Mercury does not have a moon. Mercury is not the hottest planet in the solar system though. Venus is due to its toxic atmosphere that traps the heat in it so there for, Mercury is the second hottest planet in our solar system.  
Mars	orbit: 227,940,000 km (1.52 AU) from Sun Mars is the fourth planet from the Sun in our Solar System. Mars is named after the mythological Roman god of war because it is a red planet, and red is the colour of blood. Appearance. Mars has two very small moons, called Phobos and Deimos. The planet Mars is made of rock. The ground there is red because of iron oxide (rust) in the rocks and dust. The planet has a small carbon dioxide atmosphere. The temperatures on Mars are colder than on Earth, because it is farther away from the Sun. There is some ice at the north and south poles of Mars, and also frozen carbon dioxide. Mars does not have any water on the surface now, except at the poles, but most scientists think it used to have water. The average thickness of the planet's crust is about 50 km (31 mi), with a maximum thickness of 125 km (78 mi). Earth's crust, on average 40 km (25 mi), is three times smaller as Mars’ crust based to the sizes of the two planets if they are made equal. History of Mars. Mars has been known since old times. The Greeks named this planet Ares, after their god of war, but when the Romans took over the Greeks, they named the planet Mars. Some of the first attempts at mapping Mars were done by Giovanni Schiaparelli. What he saw through his telescope confused him. He saw what he called "canali", which were ditches dug for water to pass through. This started a rumor that there were other animals and life on Mars, possibly even aliens. Today, we know there cannot be any such aliens. Life, climate and atmosphere of Mars. Because Mars is the closest to the Earth in the Solar System, people have wondered if there is any kind of life on Mars. Mars has the most similar seasons to Earth of all the planets in our Solar System. It also has a very similar tilt in its axis of 25 degree angle. However, since Mars is further than the Earth from the sun, the seasons of this planet last longer than those of Earth. As a result, a year in Mars is longer than a year in Earth. The atmosphere of Mars is much thinner than Earth’s. Amazingly, surface temperatures can range from -113°C at the winter pole to 0°C on the dayside during summertime. Popular culture. Some famous stories were written about this idea. The writers used the name "Martians" for intelligent beings from Mars. In 1898 H. G. Wells wrote "The War of the Worlds", a famous novel about Martians attacking the Earth. In 1938, Orson Welles broadcast a radio version of this story in the United States, and many people thought it was really happening and were very afraid. Beginning in 1912, Edgar Rice Burroughs wrote several novels about adventures on Mars. Today. As of March 2008, scientists have not found life on Mars, either living now or extinct. Several space probes without people have gone to Mars to study it. Some have orbited (gone around) the planet, and some have landed on it. There are pictures of the surface of Mars that were sent back to Earth by some of these probes. Some people are interested in sending astronauts to visit Mars. This would be difficult. The astronauts would be in space for many years, and it could be very dangerous because of radiation from the sun.  
Mac OS	Released in 1984, the Macintosh Operating System or Mac OS is the operating system that allows a Macintosh computer to boot (start up) and operate. Historically, Mac OS was known as Macintosh System Software – which in turn was often shortened to System or SSW (System Software). The term "Mac OS" first appeared in the splash screen for System 7.5.1, but wasn't officially adopted as the new name until the release of Mac OS 7.6. The latest version of Mac OS is Mac OS X 10.5.5.  
Apple Macintosh	An Apple Macintosh or just Mac is a type of computer. It was first made by Apple in January 1984, and the brand continues to this day. The people who made the Macintosh and Mac OS (operating system) wanted computers to be simpler. Some of these people liked a Xerox computer. The Macintosh was the first popular computer where people could click things on a screen. The newest version of Mac OS is called Mac OS X. It is based on Unix. New Macintosh computers can have Linux, Unix, Windows, or BeOS on them.  
Metre	A metre (US spelling, "meter") is the basic unit of length in the SI measurement system. The abbreviation for the metre is m. According to the earliest definition (dating to the French Revolution), it was 1/10,000,000th (one ten-millionth) of the distance between the Earth's equator and the North Pole along the Paris meridian. The metre is now officially defined as the distance light travels in a vacuum in 1/299,792,458th of a second. In the imperial system of measurement, one metre is equal to about 39.37 inches, 3.28 feet, or about 1.09 yards. Units based on the metre. "*Note: units in bold are the most commonly used."  
Magnifying glass	A magnifying glass is a lens through which you can look to make things appear bigger, so you can see them better. The magnifying glass consists of a piece of convex-shaped glass or plastic. It has to be held at the right distance between the eye and the object. The magnifying glass usually comes with a handle. A telescope is a more advanced kind of magnifying glass and consists of at least two glass lenses. A pair of binoculars is like a telescope for each eye. "Spectacles" or eyeglasses also use lenses to correct a person's vision.  
Molecule	A molecule is the smallest amount of a chemical substance that can exist. If a molecule were split into smaller pieces, it would be a different substance. Molecules are made up of atoms that are stuck together in a particular shape. Not all combinations of atoms are possible; atoms like certain shapes, but not others. For example, oxygen atoms always have two bonds with other atoms, carbon atoms always have four bonds with other atoms, and nitrogen atoms always have three bonds with other atoms. In gases like air, the molecules are just flying around. In liquids like water, the molecules are stuck together but they can still move. In solids like sugar, the molecules can only vibrate. With a molecular formula, you can write down the numbers of all atoms in a molecule. For example, the molecular formula of sugar is C6H12O6. That means that one molecule of sugar is made up of six carbon atoms, twelve hydrogen atoms and six oxygen atoms.  
Moral reasoning	Moral reasoning is a topic studied in psychology and in moral philosophy. It studies how people think about moral issues, problems, and questions. Psychologists who have studied it include Lawrence Kohlberg and Elliot Turiel. Kohlberg said that moral understanding develops in three main stages as a person gets older, but Turiel said that there are three domains of moral understanding that develop at the same time as a person gets older. Moral philosophy, or ethics, is a major branch of philosophy. It is the study of value or quality. It covers the analysis and use of concepts such as right, wrong, good, evil, and responsibility.  
Mosque	A mosque is a place of Muslim worship. The word "mosque" comes from the Arabic word "masjid", — (pl. "masājid", —). Arabic uses different words for different kinds of mosques, for the smaller, privately owned mosque and the larger, "collective" mosque (, "masjid jāmi‘"), which has more services to its community. Larger mosques often also offer social services. Questions and discussions about Islam are also done in mosques. Muslims worship, talk, and do many other things in a mosque; for many people a mosque is more than a place of worship. In the United Kingdom, many mosques are used as Community centres and to teach about Islam. Religious festivals and gatherings, such as weddings are also held in mosques. Mosques have rules of conduct. It is considered rude to disturb another person who is worshipping in a mosque. Many mosques are known for their Islamic architecture. They have developed significantly from the open-air spaces that were the Quba Mosque and Masjid al-Nabawi in the seventh century. Today, many mosques have domes, minarets, and prayer halls. Mosques originated on the Arabian Peninsula. Nowadays, they can be found on all continents, except for Antarctica. A mosque is not a church–it is not considered a holy place. Muslims do not consider it to hold any holy power. Architectural styles. The style of mosques was not invented by the Muslims who built them. They used old architectural styles, and combined them in new ways. Most influence comes from the architecture used for the palaces built during the Parthian and Sassanian dynasties of Persia. The Sarvestan palace from the Sassanian era is a good example of this. It has an arched entrance and a central dome. These architectural features already existed in Persian architecture before Islam came to Persia. After the Arab invasion of Persia, the architecture was combined with elements of Sassanian culture and used for the new Islamic world. Many forms of mosques have evolved in different regions of the Islamic world. Notable mosque types include the early Abbasid mosques, T-type mosques, and the central-dome mosques of Anatolia. The oil-wealth of the twentieth century drove a great deal of mosque construction using designs from leading non-Muslim modern architects. It also promoted the careers of important contemporary Muslim ones. Arab plan. "Arab-plan" or hypostyle mosques are the earliest type of mosques. They were first built under the Umayyad Dynasty. These mosques have square or rectangular plans with an enclosed courtyard and covered prayer hall. Historically, in the warm Mediterranean and Middle Eastern climates, the courtyard served to accommodate the large number of worshippers during Friday prayers. Most early hypostyle mosques had flat roofs on prayer halls. This required the use of many columns and supports. One of the most notable hypostyle mosques is the Mezquita de Córdoba in Spain. This building is supported by over 850 columns. Frequently, hypostyle mosques have outer arcades so that visitors can enjoy the shade. Arab-plan mosques were constructed mostly under the Umayyad and Abbasid dynasties. The Arab plan was very simple. This limited the opportunities for development. For this reason, the mosques consequently lost popularity. Central dome. The Ottomans introduced "central dome mosques" in the fifteenth century. These mosques have a large dome centered over the prayer hall. There are smaller domes, too. These exist off-center over the prayer hall or throughout the rest of the mosque, where prayer is not performed. This style was heavily influenced by the Byzantine religious architecture with its use of large central domes. Iwan. "Iwan mosques" are most notable for their domed chambers and "iwans". Iwans are vaulted spaces opening at one end. In "iwan" mosques, one or more iwans face a central courtyard that serves as the prayer hall. The style borrows from pre-Islamic Iranian architecture. Most mosques with this style are in Iran. Minarets. Most mosques have minarets. Minarets are tall towers. Usually they are at one of the corners of the mosque. The top of the minaret is often the highest point in those mosques that have one. Very often, it is also the highest point in the area around the mosque. The tallest minaret in the world is located at the Hassan II Mosque in Casablanca, Morocco. The first mosques had no minarets. The most conservative Islamic movements, like Wahhabis, still avoid building minarets. They see them as ostentatious and unnecessary. The first minaret was constructed in 665 in Basra during the reign of the Umayyad caliph Muawiyah I. Muawiyah encouraged the construction of minarets, as they were supposed to bring mosques on par with Christian churches with their bell towers. Consequently, mosque architects borrowed the shape of the bell tower for their minarets, which were used for essentially the same purpose — calling the faithful to prayer. Before the five required daily prayers, a muezzin calls the worshippers to prayer from the minaret. In many countries like Singapore where Muslims are not the majority, mosques are prohibited from loudly broadcasting the call to prayer ("adhan"), although it is supposed to be said loudly to the surrounding community. The adhan is required before every prayer. However, nearly every mosque assigns a muezzin for each prayer to say the adhan as it is a recommended practice or sunnah of the Islamic prophet Muhammad. At mosques that do not have minarets, the adhan is called instead from inside the mosque or somewhere else on the ground. The iqama, which is similar to the adhan and said immediately before the start of prayer, is usually not said from the minaret even if a mosque has one. Domes. The domes were often placed directly above the main prayer hall. They signify the vaults of heaven and the sky. At first, these domes were small. They only occupied a small part of the roof near the mihrab. Later, they took the whole roof above the prayer hall. Domes normally have the shape of a hemisphere. The Mughals in India popularized onion-shaped domes in South Asia and Persia. Some mosques have several domes, in addition to the main large dome that is at the center. The other domes are often smaller. Domes in traditional mosques would be used to help the imam project his voice as the sound waves would bounce in and then out of the dome making the voice louder. Prayer hall. All mosques have a prayer hall, which is also called musalla. Normally, there is no furniture in it. This makes it possible to allow as many people as possible to pray. Some mosques have Arabic calligraphy and Qur'anic verses on the walls to help worshippers in focusing on the beauty of Islam and its holiest book, the Qur'an, as well as for decoration. The "qiblah wall" is usually at the other side of the entrance to the prayer hall. This wall is specially decorated. In a properly oriented mosque, it will be set perpendicular to a line leading to Mecca, the location of the Kaaba. People pray in rows parallel to the "qiblah" wall. They arrange themselves so they face Mecca. In the "qiblah" wall, usually at its center, is the mihrab, a niche or depression showing the direction of Mecca. Usually the "mihrab" is not occupied by furniture either. Sometimes, especially during Friday prayers, a raised minbar or pulpit is located to the side of the "mihrab" for a khatib or some other speaker to offer a sermon (khutbah). The mihrab serves as the location where the imam leads the five daily prayers on a regular basis. Washing. All people must wash themselves before they pray. There is a ritual washing. For this reason, mosques often have fountains or other facilities for washing in their entryways or courtyards. At very small mosques, worshippers often have to use restrooms for their ritual washing. In bigger, traditional mosques, there is often a building of its own dedicated to washing. Most of the time, this is in the center of the courtyard. In the prayer halls, people must not wear shoes for much the same reason. Special rooms are provided where shoes can be left. Foyers with shelves to put shoes and racks to hold coats are commonplace among mosques. This is also known as Wudhu/Wudu. Modern features. Modern mosques should appeal to the community they serve. For this reason, other facilities may also be available at the mosque, like health clinics, libraries and gymnasiums. The inside of mosques. Some mosques look very beautiful when seen from the outside, but can be simple and plain on the inside. There may be drawn plaster or coloured mosaics on the walls. Usually there are no seats. This is because Muslims pray kneeling down on mats. Prayers. Islam says that all adult Muslims should do "Salat" prayers five times a day. The only exceptions to this rule are those who are ill. Most mosques will organise formal prayers for each of these times. Mosques also organise a special prayer service, called "jumuah". This is done once a week, as a form of Sabbath and replaces the Friday prayers at the mosque. Daily prayers can be done anywhere, but Muslims are expected to do their Friday prayer at the mosque. The mosque is the centre of the Islamic community, illustrating the idea of brotherhood and iman. A funeral prayer, or salat ul-janazah, is normally held for a deceased Muslim outdoors in a courtyard or square close to the mosque, with all congregants present, including the imam, participating. During eclipses, mosques will host special prayers called eclipse prayers. There are two large holidays ("Eids") in the Islamic calendar, Eid ul-Fitr and Eid ul-Adha during which there are special prayers at mosques in the morning. These Eid prayers are supposed to be offered in large groups, and so larger mosques will normally host them for their congregants as well as the congregants of smaller local mosques. Some mosques will even rent convention centers or other large public buildings to hold the large number of Muslims who attend. Mosques, especially those in countries where Muslims are the majority, will also host Eid prayers outside in courtyards or town squares. Ramadan events. There are many events in Ramadan, Islam's holiest month. During Ramadan, Mulims must fast during the day. Mosques will therefore organise "iftar" dinners after sunset. These are done after the fourth required prayer of the day, maghrib. At least part of the food is provided by members of the community. This creates nighlty potluck dinners. The community contribution to iftar dinners is required. For this reason, mosques with smaller congregaions may not be able to host the "iftar" dinners daily. Some mosques will also hold "suhoor" meals. These are done in the morning before dawn, before the first prayer of the day, called fajr. Like with iftar, people from the community sometimes provide food, but mosques may provide food instead. Mosques will often invite poorer members of the community to these meals. Islam sees giving charity during Ramadan as especially honorable. Larger mosques sometimes offer special, optional prayers, done after the last obligatory prayer of the day, isha. During each night of prayers, which can last for up to two hours, one member of the community who has memorized the entire Qur’an will recite a segment of the book. Sometimes, several such people (not necessarily of the local community) take turns to do this. During the last ten days of Ramadan, larger mosques will host all-night programs to observe Laylat al-Qadr, the night Muslims believe the Islamic prophet Muhammad first received Qur'anic revelations. On that night, between sunset and sunrise, mosques employ speakers to educate congregants in attendance about Islam. Mosques or the community usually provide meals periodically throughout the night. During the last ten days of Ramadan, larger mosques within the Muslim community will host i'tikaf. This is a practice where at least one man from the local community is expected to take part. Muslims performing i'tikaf are required to stay inside the mosque for ten consecutive days, often in worship or learning about Islam. As a result, the rest of the Muslim community is responsible for providing them with food, drinks, and whatever else they need during their stay. Charity. The third of the Five Pillars of Islam states that Muslims are required to give approximately one-fortieth of their wealth to charity as "zakat". Since mosques form the center of Muslim communities, they are where Muslims go to both give zakat and, if necessary, collect it. Prior to the holiday of Eid ul-Fitr, mosques also collect a special zakat that is supposed to assist in helping poor Muslims attend the prayers and celebrations associated with the holiday. Political functions. During the late twentieth century, more and more mosques have been used for political purposes. Modern-day mosques in the Western world want to educate good citizens. Mosques are used to preach political messages, like peaceful co-existence with non-believers, even when there are problems. Advocacy. Countries with a minority Muslim population are more likely than Muslim-majority countries of the Greater Middle East to use mosques as a way to promote civic participation. American mosques host voter registration and civic participation drives. In the United States, Muslims are often immigranŧs, or the children of immigrants. Mosques want to interest these people for politics, and to keep them informed about issues that concern the Muslim community of the country. People who attend the services at the mosque regularly are more likely to take part in protests, to sign petitions, and to involve themselves in political matters. A link between political views and mosque attendance can still be seen in other parts of the world. After the al-Askari Mosque bombing in February 2006, imams and other Islamic leaders used mosques and Friday prayers to call for calm and peace in the midst of widespread violence. Beginning in the late twentieth century and continuing into the early twenty-first century, a small number of mosques have also become the platforms of some extremist imams to advocate terrorism and extreme Islamic ideals. Finsbury Park Mosque in London is exemplary of a mosque that has been used in this manner. Social conflict. The Muslim community considers mosques important. Like other places of worship, mosques can therefore be at the center of social conflicts. Babri Mosque was the subject of such a conflict up until the early 1990s when it was demolished. Before a mutual solution could be devised, the mosque was destroyed by approximately 200,000 Hindus on December 6, 1992. The mosque was built by Babur allegedly on the site of a previous Hindu temple to mark the birthplace of Ram. The controversy surrounded the mosque was directly linked to rioting in Bombay (present-day Mumbai) as well as bombings in 1993 that killed 257 people. In February 2006, a bombing seriously damaged Iraq's al-Askari Mosque. This was bad for the tensions that had already existed beforehand. The conflict between two Muslim groups in Iraq had already led to other bombings. But mosque bombings are not limited to Iraq. In June 2005, a suicide bomber killed at least 19 people at an Afghan mosque. In April 2006, two explosions occurred at India's Jama Masjid. After the September 11 attacks, several American mosques were targets of attacks. These ranged from simple vandalism to arson. The Jewish Defense League was suspected of plotting to bomb the King Fahd Mosque in Culver City, California. Similar attacks occurred throughout the United Kingdom following the 7 July 2005 London bombings. Outside the Western world, in June 2001, the Hassan Bek Mosque was the target of attacks involving hundreds of Israelis angry at Arabs for a previous attack. Saudi influence. Saudi involvement in building mosques around the world can be traced back to the 1960s. The government of Saudi Arabia became a large influence in building foreign mosques only in the last part of the 20th century. In the 1980s, the Saudi Arabian government began to finance the construction of mosques in countries around the world. An estimated US$45 billion has been spent by the Saudi Arabian government financing mosques and Islamic schools in foreign countries. "Ain al-Yaqeen", a Saudi newspaper, reported in 2002 that Saudi funds may have helped to build as many as 1,500 mosques and 2,000 other Islamic centers Saudi citizens have also contributed significantly to mosques in the Islamic world, especially in countries where they see Muslims as poor and oppressed. Following the fall of the Soviet Union, in 1992, mosques in impoverished Afghanistan saw many contributions from Saudi citizens. The King Fahd Mosque in Culver City, California and the Islamic Cultural Center of Italy in Rome represent two of Saudi Arabia's largest investments in foreign mosques as former Saudi king Fahd bin Abdul Aziz al-Saud contributed US$8 million and US$50 million to the two mosques, respectively. Rules and behaviour in mosques. In order to help people keeping focused on worshipping Allah, there are a number of rules that regulate how to behave in a mosque. Some rules are valid all over the world, like the one that says that no shoes should be worn in the prayer hall. There are many rules that are different from mosque to mosque. Prayer leader. It is generally seen as good to have someone who leads the prayers. This is not obligatory, though. The person who usually leads the prayers is called imam. He must be a free and honest man. He should also be an authority when it comes to answering questions on religion. In mosques that were built or that are maintained by the government, the imam is selected by the ruler. In private mosques, the community selects the imam, through majority voting. According to the Hanafi school of Islamic jurisprudence, the man who built the mosque has a stronger claim to the title of imam, but this view is not shared by the other schools. There are three categories of leading prayers, different by the type of prayer: five daily prayers, Friday prayer, or optional prayers. The Hanafi and Maliki school of Islamic jurisprudence say that Friday prayers must be led, otherwise they are invalid. Shafi'i and Hanbali schools say that the Friday prayer is valid, as long as it is done in a congregation. Friday prayer can be led by a slave. Scholars disagree on whether a minor can lead Friday prayers. The person appointed to lead the five daily services can lead the Friday prayer as well. Only men may lead prayers in congregations for men. Women are allowed to lead prayers for congregations where there are only women. Washing. All mosques have rules regarding cleanliness. Being clean is an important part of the worshipper's experience. Muslims are required to wash themselves before praying. There is a washing ritual, known as "wudu". There are other rules that also apply to those who enter the mosque, even though they do not want to pray there. It is forbidden to wear shoes in the carpeted area of the prayer hall. Some mosques also forbid wearing shoes in other parts, even though these may not be devoted to praying. Those praying and those visiting are expected to be clean. Coming to a mosque after eating something smelly, like garlic, is also undesirable. Dress. Islam requires that its adherents wear clothes that show modesty. As a result, both men and women must follow this rule when they attend a mosque, even though many mosques do not enforce these rules. Men are supposed to come to the mosque wearing loose and clean clothes that do not reveal the shape of the body. Similarly, women who come to the mosque are expected to wear loose clothing, shirts, pants that cover to the wrists and ankles and cover their heads such as with a hijab. Many Muslims, regardless of their ethnic background, wear Middle eastern clothing associated with Arabic Islam to special occasions and prayers at mosques. Concentration. Mosques are places of worship. For this reason, those inside the mosque should be respectful to those who are praying. Loud talking within the mosque, as well as discussion of topics deemed disrespectful, is forbidden in areas where people are praying. It is also disrespectful to walk in front of Muslims in prayer or otherwise disturb them. The walls within the mosque have few items, except for possibly Arabic calligraphy, so Muslims in prayer are not distracted. Muslims are also discouraged from wearing clothing with distracting images and symbols to not divert the attention of those standing behind them during prayer. In many mosques, even the carpeted prayer area has no designs, its plainness helps worshippers focus. Men and women pray in different parts. Islamic law requires men and women to be separated in the prayer hall. Ideally, women should pray behind men. Muhammad said, women should pray at home, rather than at the mosque. Muhammad thought women sohuld not be forbidden in mosques. The second caliph Umar at one time prohibited women from attending mosques especially at night because he feared they may be teased by males, so he required them to pray at home. Sometimes a special part of the mosque was railed off for women; for example, the governor of Mecca in 870 had ropes tied between the columns to make a separate place for women. Many mosques today will put the women behind a barrier or partition or in another room. Mosques in South and Southeast Asia put men and women in separate rooms, as the divisions were built into them centuries ago. In nearly two-thirds of American mosques, women pray behind partitions or in separate areas, not in the main prayer hall; some mosques do not admit women at all. Although there are sections exclusively for women and children, the Grand Mosque in Mecca is desegregated. Non-Muslims in mosques. Under most interpretations of Islamic law, non-Muslims may be allowed into mosques, as long as they do not sleep or eat there; the dissenting opinion is presented by followers of the Maliki school of Islamic jurisprudence, who argue that non-Muslims may not be allowed into mosques under any circumstances. Different countries have different opinions on the question. With few exceptions, mosques in the Arabian peninsula as well as Morocco do not non-Muslims. For example, the Hassan II Mosque in Casablanca is one of only two mosques in Morocco currently open to non-Muslims. However, there are also many other places in the west as well as the Islamic world where non-Muslims are welcome to enter mosques. Most mosques in the United States, for example, report receiving non-Muslim visitors every month. Many Mosques throughout the United States welcome non-Muslims as a sign of openness to the rest of the community and to encourage conversions to Islam. In modern-day Saudi Arabia, the Grand Mosque and all of Mecca are open only to Muslims. Likewise, the Masjid al-Nabawi and the city of Medina that surrounds it are also off-limits to those who do not practice Islam. For mosques in other areas, it has most commonly been taken that non-Muslims may only enter mosques if granted permission to do so by Muslims and if they have a legitimate reason. All entrants regardless of religious affiliation are expected to respect the rules and decorum for mosques. In modern Turkey non-Muslim tourists are allowed to enter any mosque, but there are strict rules. Visiting a mosque is allowed only between prayers; visitors are required to wear long trousers and not to wear shoes, women must cover their heads; visitors are not allowed to interrupt praying Muslims, especially by taking photos of them; no loud talk is allowed; and no references to other religions are allowed (no crosses on necklaces, no cross gestures etc.) At different times and places, non-Muslims living under Muslim rule were required to demonstrate deference to mosques. In most cities of Morocco, Jews were required to remove their shoes when passing by a mosque Danish traveler Carsten Niebuhr wrote that in 18th century Egypt Jews and Christians had to dismount before several mosques in veneration of their sanctity. Dogs. Dogs are usually banned from entering mosques, but on September 24, 2008, the Muslim Law Council UK granted a blind Muslim permission to take his guide dog into the mosque via a Fatwa. Mosques as hostel. It is common for a smaller mosque to serve as a hostel for Muslims on "haj" (pilgrimage to Mecca). Sometimes mosques are used for refugees, or as temporary homes for homeless people. Obligations to neighbours in Islam are very strict, and specific. The Qur'an says that "she who is friend to three neighbours will enter Paradise; she who is not, won't," along with other commands, such as helping the poor and being nice to people. An important part of being Muslim, or just being part of the mosque, is taking care of people who need help. A mosque is a social group, as well as a religious group. A madrassa is a little different from a mosque. A madrassa focuses on teaching Islam, usually to children and teens. Mosques in Spain. When Spain was under Muslim control, some of the most beautiful buildings were mosques. After 1492, Spain was under Christian control. However, the Christians did not tear down the mosques. They simply put a crucifix in them to make them into churches. These mosques influenced the Renaissance architecture (way of building) in Europe.  
Mammal	Mammals are a group of vertebrate animals. They form the class "Mammalia". A mammal is any animal that produces and feeds its young with milk and is warm-blooded; the heat they need to live is made inside their body. The milk is made by glands in the skin or the mammary glands. There are only five mammals that lay eggs, called Monotremes (for example the platypus). Almost all mammals give birth to living young. Those mammals can be divided into the Marsupials and the Eutheria, the placental mammals. Marsupials are mammals with pouches to carry young in, like the kangaroo. The Eutheria are all other mammals. Most mammals have four limbs and a coat of hair, wool or fur.  
Number	Numbers are also used for other things besides counting. Numbers are used when things are measured. Numbers are used to study how the world works. Mathematics is a way to use numbers to learn about the world and make things. Numbers for people. There are different ways of giving symbols to numbers. These methods are called number systems. The most common number system that people use is the "base ten" number system. The "base ten" number system is also called the "decimal" number system. The base ten number system is common because people have ten fingers and ten toes. There are 10 different symbols used in the base ten number system. These ten symbols are called digits. A symbol for a number is made up of these ten digits. The position of the digits shows how big the number is. For example, the number 23 in the decimal number system really means 2 times 10 plus 3, and 101 means 1 times a hundred (=100) plus 0 times 10 (=0) plus 1 times 1 (=1). Numbers for machines. Another number system is more common for machines. The machine number system is called the "binary" number system. The binary number system is also called the base two number system. There are two different symbols (0,1) used in the base two number system. These two symbols are called bits. A symbol for a binary number is made up of these two bit symbols. The position of the bit symbols shows how big the number is. For example, the number 10 in the binary number system really means 1 times 2 plus 0, and 101 means 1 times four (=4) plus 0 times two (=0) plus 1 times 1 (=1). The binary number 10 is the same as the decimal number 2. The binary number 101 is the same as the decimal number 5. Names of numbers. When dealing with larger numbers than this there are two different ways of naming the numbers in English. Under the 'long scale' a new name is given every time the number is a million times larger than the last named number. It is also called the 'British Standard'. This scale used to be common in Britain but is not often used in English speaking countries today. It is still used in some other European nations. Another scale is the 'short scale' under which a new name is given every time a number is a thousand times larger than the last named number. This scale is a lot more common in most English speaking nations today. Natural numbers. Natural numbers are the numbers which we normally use for counting, 1,2,3,4,5,6,7,8,9,10 etc. Some people call these counting numbers. Some people say that 0 is a natural number, too. Another name for these numbers is positive numbers. These numbers are sometimes written as +1 to show that they are different from the negative numbers. But not all positive numbers are natural (for example formula_1 is positive, but not natural). Negative numbers. Negative numbers are numbers less than zero. One way to think of negative numbers is using a "number line". We call one point on this line zero. Then we will label (write the name of) every position on the line by how far to the right of the zero point it is, for example the point one is one centimeter to the right, the point two is two centimeters to the right. Now think about a point which is one centimeter to the left of the zero point. We cannot call this point one, as there is already a point called one. We therefore call this point minus 1 (-1) (as it is one centimeter away, but in the opposite direction). A drawing of a number line is below. If people add a negative number to another this is the same as taking away the positive number with the same numerals. For example 5 + (-3) is the same as 5 - 3, and equals 2. If they take away a negative number from another this is the same as adding the positive number with the same numerals. For example 5 - (-3) is the same as 5 + 3, and equals 8. If they multiply two negative numbers together they get a positive number. For example -5 times -3 is 15. If they multiply a negative number by a positive number, or multiply a positive number by a negative number, they get a negative result. For example 5 times -3 is -15. Integers. Integers are all the natural numbers, all their opposites, and the number zero. Rational numbers. Rational numbers are numbers which can be written as fractions. This means that they can be written as "a" divided by "b", where the numbers "a" and "b" are integers, and "b" is not equal to 0. Some rational numbers, such as 1/10, need a finite number of digits after the decimal point to write them in decimal form. The number one tenth is written in decimal form as 0.1. Numbers written with a finite decimal form are rational. Some rational numbers, such as 1/11, need an infinite number of digits after the decimal point to write them in decimal form. There is a repeating pattern to the digits following the decimal point. The number one eleventh is written in decimal form as 0.0909090909... Irrational numbers. Irrational numbers are numbers which cannot be written as a fraction, but do not have imaginary parts. Irrational numbers often occur in geometry. Irrational numbers are often refer to as "J" for its symbol. For instance if we have a square which has sides of 1 meter, the distance between opposite corners is the square root of two. This is an irrational number. In decimal for it is written as 1.414213... Mathematicians have proved that the square root of every natural number is either an integer or an irrational number. One well known irrational number is pi. This is the circumference of a circle divided by its diameter. This number is the same for every circle. The number pi is approximately 3.1415926359.... An irrational number cannot be fully written down in decimal form. It would have an infinite number of digits after the decimal point. These digits would also not repeat. Real numbers. Real numbers is a name for all the sets of numbers listed above This is all numbers but for imaginary numbers. Imaginary numbers. Imaginary numbers are formed by real numbers multiplied by the number i. This number is the square root of minus one (-1). There is no number in the real numbers which when squared makes the number -1. Therefore mathematicians invented a number. They called this number i, or the imaginary unit. Imaginary numbers were called "imaginary" because when they were first found many mathematicians did not think they existed. The person who "discovered" imaginary numbers was Gerolamo Cardano in the 1500s. The first to use the word "imaginary number" was René Descartes. The first people to use these numbers were Leonard Euler and Carl Friedrich Gauss. Both lived in the 18th century. Complex numbers. Complex numbers are numbers which have two parts; a "real" part and an "imaginary" part. Every type of number written above is also a complex number. Complex numbers are a more general form of numbers. Every equation can be solved using only complex numbers. The complex numbers can be drawn on a number plane. This is composed of a real number line, and an imaginary number line. 3i|_ 2i|_. 2+2i i|_ -2 -1 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 -i|_.3-i .-2-2i -2i|_ -3i|_ To multiply two complex numbers is complicated. It is easiest to describe in general terms, with two complex numbers a + bi and c + di. formula_2 For example (4 + 5i) × (3 + 2i) = (4 × 3 - 5 × 2) + (4 × 2 + 5 × 3)i = (12 - 10) + (8 + 15)i = 2 + 23i. Transcendental numbers. A real or complex number is called "Transcendental number" if it cannot be obtained as a result of an algebraic equation with integer coefficients. formula_3 Proving that a certain number is transcendental can be extremely difficult. Each transcendental number is also an irrational number. The first people to see that there were transcendental numbers were Gottfried Wilhelm Leibniz and Leonhard Euler. The first to actually prove there were transcendental numbers was Joseph Liouville. He did this in 1844.  
Numeral	A numeral is a written symbol that represents the value of a "number". Instead of the word "one", a writer might use the symbol "1", for example.  
November	November is the eleventh month of the year. It has 30 days. Its name is from the Latin "novem" for "nine" (it was the ninth month of the year, before January and February were added). November begins on the same day of the week as March every year and also February except in leap years. November's flower is the Chrysanthemum with its birthstone being the Topaz. The meaning of the Topaz is Fidelity.  
National anthem	A national anthem is a song that the people of a country use to remember and respect their country. Some countries, like Spain, have a national anthem which has no lyrics (words of a song)  
Name	Name is a word (or a set of words) given to things and people. For example, "cat" is the name of a kind of animal. "Ryan" is a name of a person. The word 'name' can also be used as a verb. To name something is to give it a name. People's names. In many cultures, there are rules and customs about how to give a person a name. Some of the rules are defined by laws, and others are defined by traditions (doing things in the way they have been done for a long time). 1. Number of parts of a name In some cultures, a person has a one-part name, such as "ShiningWater." In other cultures, a person has a two-part name, such as "John Smith." In some cultures, a person can have any number of name parts. In the United States, for example, some people have three: first name, middle name, and last name. Other people have only two: a first and last name. In Chinese cultures, it is typical for a person to have three-part name, such as "Cheah Ching San." Where "Cheah" is the surname. Written in English format a comma is introduced making it "Ching San, Cheah." 2. Relations with names of parents and other relatives In some cultures, people have the same "family name" (or surname) as their parents. For example, the father of John Smith may be Mike Smith. And Mike Smith's father may be James Smith. The "Smith" part is the same for all the family. In other cultures, a person has the same name as his or her father, but the name is in a different place. For example, Shafiq Hanif's son may be Hanif Kamal. Hanif is in both the father's and son's name. In some cultures, a name changes when people marry, divorce, go through some religious ceremony, etc. For example, in some Spanish-speaking countries, people use two last names: their mother's father's name and their father's name. If Elena Rodriguez Gomez and Jose Sanchez Soria marry, she may change her name to Elena Rodriguez de Sanchez, and their child could be named Pilar Sanchez Rodriguez, taking the names of both of her grandfathers. In some cultures, personal names come from history. In most European countries, some first names are taken from the Bible. In some cultures, names are taken from a relative. In other cultures, a name shows what the parents hope their child will be like. A baby may be given a name Wisdom because parents hope the baby will be a wise girl or boy. Some cultures avoid giving people a name of an animal. For example, there is no name like dog, cat, snake, owl, or fish in Japanese people's first names. But in some cultures animal names may be good. In some languages and cultures, you can tell if a word is a person's name or not by just looking at the spelling or listening to its pronunciation. There are some other linguistic patterns. For example, many Chinese names are made up of three syllables. 6. Use of names, titles, nicknames, etc. In some cultures, people use names when they call each other. In other cultures, people use their nicknames. In some other cultures, people use their titles ("father," "professor," etc.) when they call each other. 7. Spelling of names, titles, nicknames, etc. In the English language, names exclusively are usually pronounced in correlation with the spelling, however can be pronounced as desired, eg. John is (jon) but can also be (ned). However not probable, is held true in the English rules of grammar. Japanese names. Here are some things that are often found in Japanese names today. In the past, people went by different rules. 1. Number of parts of a name Japanese names have two parts. One is the family name and the other is the given name. "Suzuki Ichiro" is a name of a Japanese person. Suzuki is the family name, and Ichiro is the first name. In the Japanese language, the family name comes first, and the given name comes second. (It is like writing Smith John, instead of John Smith.) Only some members of the royal family do not have a family name. 2. Relations with names of parents and other relatives A newborn baby gets a family name from their parents. The parents have the same family name. So, a son of Ono Yoko (female) and Ono Ken (male) is Ono something. The family name Ono is mostly shared by the paternal (male) part of the family. So Ono Ken's parents have the family name Ono, but Ono Yoko's parents probably do not. Names of people change when they marry and divorce. It is a custom in many parts of the world that women change their family name to that of their new husband when they marry. However, in Europe and North America especially, many women no longer do this even though their mothers and grandmothers may have. Sometimes, the man will take the woman's family name. 6. Use of names, titles, nicknames, etc.  
Niihau	Niihau is the smallest of the inhabited islands of Hawaii, in the United States. It has a land area of 70 sq. miles (184 sq. km). It is the oldest of the eight main islands. The whole island is owned by the Robinson family. They bought it from the Kingdom of Hawaii for $10,000. It was said that the buyer, Elizabeth Sinclair (later Sinclair-Robinson), liked the island better than other places such as Waikiki, Pearl Harbor, and the island of Lanai. There is a small US Navy base where a handful of Navy people work. The island has a few hundred permanent inhabitants. Almost all of them are native Hawaiians. They support themselves largely with small family farms. Many work for the ranch owned by the Robinsons. The native Hawaiians lead a rural, low-tech life. They speak the Hawaiian language and keep traditions alive. This is because Ms. Sinclair promised to help preserve Hawaiian culture and tradition when she bought the island. Niihau is the only one of the Hawaiian islands where the Hawaiian language is the main language. Niihau is also known as the "Forbidden Island". This is due to the fact that until recently, the island was off-limits to all but family members, US Navy personnel, government officials and expressly invited guests. Now, tourists can go on one of a limited number of supervised tours or hunting safaris. On the beaches of the island are found shells which are the only shells to be classified as gems. Niihau shells and the jewelry made from them are very popular. Many, especially those with darker and richer color, are collectors items. The sale of shells and shell jewelry brings extra money for the local people.  
Nene	The Néné, or Hawaiian Goose, "Branta sandvicensis" is a species of goose found only on some of the Hawaiian islands. It gets its name from its soft call. This is an unmistakable species, with its generally brown plumage (feathers) and darker head. Its strong toes have much reduced webbing (skin between the toes), an adjustment to the lava flows on which it breeds. The Néné goes about on land much more than other water birds. When moulting (dropping old feathers and growing new ones), the Néné cannot fly, like other geese, a factor which almost caused it to die out. This is the world's rarest goose. Once common, hunting and predators brought to the islands such as mongooses, pigs and cats at one time reduced the population to 30 birds. However, this species breeds well in captivity (zoos and bird parks), and has been successfully re-introduced. There are also good numbers in wild bird collections. The Néné is the state bird of Hawaii.  
Network	A network is a group of things that are connected together using some form of talking or other communication to stay together. An example of a large computer network is the Internet.  
Net	Nets are woven traps usually used to catch fish. They are usually made out of rope. A net is a kind of tool.  
Internet slang	Internet slang is slang words which are used on the Internet. Most of these words are new, such as Wiki and blog, which were not used before the Internet became popular. Some old words were given new meanings, such as mail (Which now means email), and these compare the old communication methods with the new ways using the Internet. There are many mixed metaphors on the Internet, such as boot (Which used to mean a shoe) and link (Which used to mean a join in a metal chain). Some existing acronyms, such as "AFK" (To mean "Away from keyboard") and "IRL" (To mean "In real life") were used on bulletin board systems before the Internet became popular. These are now used on the Internet, such as in chat rooms and on instant messenger software. Shorthand words. Shorthand is where a word is written in a shorter way because it is quicker and easier to type. It is also done to fit more text into a limited space. Acronyms. Internet slang uses many acronyms because they are quicker and easier to type. They are often shorthand for common phrases and idioms, but they can show somebody's emotions and their certainty. Leet speak. Leet speak (Written as: L33T or 1337) is the most common language on MMORPGs because rude words are not stopped by filters. This language is changing all the time because new words are made and used. A lot of the words use numbers instead of letters but some were made because of typing errors which are now done on purpose. Also, some suffixes are used, such as "-age" and "-ness". Some of the numbers and symbols used instead of letters are in the table below.  
Noun	A noun is a kind of word (see part of speech) that is usually the name of a person, place, thing, quality, or idea. In English, nouns can be singular or plural or they can be 1st (first) 2nd (second) or 3rd (third) person. The first person is the person speaking. The second person is the person spoken to and the third person is the person spoken about. Nouns often need a word called an article or determiner (like "the" or "that"). These words usually don't go with other kinds of words like verbs or adverbs. (For example, people don't say "I will the go to school" because "go" is a verb.) Adjectives can also describe nouns. In English, there are more nouns than any other kind of word. Every language in the world has nouns, but they are not always used in the same ways. They also can have different properties in different languages. For example, in some other languages, nouns do not change for singular and plural, and sometimes there is no word for "the". Some examples of nouns in English are: "time, people, way, year, government, day, world, life, work, part, number, house, system, company, end, party, information". The history of the word "noun". The word 'noun' comes from the Latin "nomen" meaning "name." Words like nouns were described in early days by the Sanskrit grammarian Pāṇini and ancient Greeks like Dionysios Thrax. Uses of nouns. In English sentences, nouns can be used as a subject, object, or complement. They often come after prepositions, as the 'object of preposition'. Nouns can sometimes describe other nouns (such as a soccer ball). When they do this, they are called modifiers. There are also verb forms that can be used in the same way as nouns (such as 'I like "running".) These are called "verbals" or "verbal nouns", and include "participles" (which can also be adjectives) and "infinitives". Kinds of nouns. Nouns are grouped into common nouns, and proper nouns. There are also pronouns. These have commonly been considered a different part of speech from nouns, but in the past some grammars have included them as nouns as do many modern linguists. Proper nouns. A proper noun (also called proper name) is a name given to individual people, places, companies, or brands. Some examples of proper nouns are: "London, John, God, October, Mozart, Saturday, Coke, Mr. Brown, Atlantic Ocean" Proper nouns begin with an upper case (capital) letter in English and many other languages that use the Roman alphabet. (However, in German, all nouns begin with an upper case letter.) The word "I" is really a pronoun, although it is capitalized in English, like a proper noun. Some common nouns (see below) can also be used as proper nouns. For example, someone might be named 'Tiger Smith' -- even though he is not a tiger or a smith. Number and countability. In English and many other languages, nouns have 'number'. But some nouns are only singular (such as "furniture, physics") and others are only plural (such as "clothes, police"). Also, some nouns are 'countable' (they can be counted, for example, "one piece, two pieces") but others are not (for example, we don't say "one furniture, two furnitures"). How adjectives become nouns. All adjectives without exception can become nouns by placing the word the in front of the adjective. Example: Take the adjective 'beautiful', place the word the in front of it like this, 'the beautiful' and 'beautiful' is no longer an adejective; it is now a noun. Example: "The beautiful is worthy of admiration". In the sentence, "The beautiful flower is on the table", the word 'beautiful' is an adjective because it describes the noun 'flower'. Most adjectives become nouns by adding the suffix ness. Example: Take the adjective 'natural', add 'ness' to get 'naturalness', a noun. To see a list of 100 adjectives used in Basic English, click here  
Nature	The word nature is used for all the things that aren't made by humans. Things like people, animals, mountains, rivers, trees, rain, and the sun are part of nature. Things that are part of nature are called natural. Scientists study the way the parts of nature work. Many people enjoy looking at natural things or walking in natural places, but people also have to think about how they want to use nature. Or, how they can be useful to it. Some people see reforesting and wild gardening as ways to be useful to nature. This means they must know how it works, and how it affects the air, soil, water, plants, animals and their own body. The science of ecology is about their connection, while biology studies the parts. These are two of the Natural Sciences. They create models of nature. "The science is covered in that article." In many ways humans and nature can be said to be in conflict. Nature is often seen by humans as natural resources. People cut down trees to get wood to burn or to build houses, or to make a place to grow food. Fires, cars, and factories make a lot of smoke, especially in cities. When people catch a lot of fish, sometimes they kill all the fish or harm the spawning grounds and there are none left. For instance the trawling method of catching fish very often damages coral that the small fish need to hide from big ones. People who like to leave nature unharmed and those who feel they need to use more of nature often fight about what they should do. In the modern world, with many people and many big cities, these problems are becoming more serious. It takes politics to sort them out fully. Some types of political parties focus on the idea of natural law, which is that nature shows humans how to do things, and that humans must study nature to sort out all problems. This is a very old idea, and is part of many ethical traditions. Some people think that humans do not need nature at all, and can replace everything that it does.  
Natural resource	A Natural resource is a thing people can use which comes from Nature: people do not make it themselves. Examples of natural resources are air, water, wood, oil, solar energy, wind energy, coal water, minerals. Petroleum used in cars is not a natural resource, for example, because people make it. We often say there are two sorts of natural resource: "renewable resources" and "non-renewable resources". in every country or place can get all natural resources. When people do not have one resource where they live, they can a) use another resource, or b) trade with another country (for example, they can buy oil from their neighbors). Some resources are rare - difficult to find - so people sometimes fight to have them (for example, oil resources). When people do not have some natural resources their quality of life can drop. For example, when they can not get clean water, people may become ill; if there is not enough wood, all trees will be cut and the forest will disappear (deforestation); if there are not enough fish in a sea, people can die of starvation. Some examples of renewable resources are wood, solar energy, trees, wind, hydroelectric power, fish and sunlight.  
Negentropy	Negentropy is reverse entropy. It means things becoming more in order. Time in science is defined as the direction of entropy. This makes it very hard to talk about ideas of time that would apply to negentropy or its effects. Life is considered to be negentropic because it takes things in less order, like dead food, and turns it into things in more order, like cells in the body, tissues, and organs. In doing so, it gives off heat. The outside or skin of an organism is always at maximum entropy because it is removing heat. Based on several different ideas of entropy, negentropy also would mean several different things. Cliff Joslyn proposed a list of ways to find entropy in ways other than measuring heat as given off by a body. Since it is living things looking for these ways, however, and since they create models that are in more order than the measurements they combine, thinking and science are also negentropic - just a part of life. The idea that living things order the universe is called the anthropic principle. It has a strong form which says that we are needed to do this. And a weak or obvious form which says if we were not here asking, it wouldn't matter. Cosmology is concerned with this and other issues of where life fits into models of our universe. Negentropy is not the only idea about life and how it affects our view of time. Most of engineering relies on linear time for risk analysis, economics on cyclic time like the business cycle, biology explores rhythmic time especially in systems of animal communication. Probably all of these ideas are useful for some thing, like the many ideas of entropy, and the many ideas of life.  
North America	North America is a continent in the Northern half of Earth, located to the east of the Pacific Ocean, the West of the Atlantic Ocean, the South of the Arctic Ocean, and the North of South America. It is the north part of the Americas. All of the countries and islands in the Caribbean are also part of North America.  
Neptune	Neptune (), () is the eighth and last planet from the Sun in the Solar System. It is a gas giant planet with four hard-to-see rings. It is the fourth largest planet and third heaviest. It is 17 times heavier than Earth and is a little bit more heavy than Uranus. The planet was named after the Roman God of the Sea. The astronomical symbol for the planet is. Neptune's atmosphere (a layer of gas floating above planets) is mostly made up of hydrogen and helium (two types of gases), with small amounts of methane that is makes the planet blue. Neptune's blue color is much more brighter compared to Uranus, which has a similar amount of methane, so there might be another reason why neptune is blue. Neptune also has the strongest winds of any planet in the solar system, measured as high as 2,100 km/h or 1,300 mph. Neptune was discovered by astronomers, Urbain Le Verrier and John Couch Adams who were both honored for the discovery. The planet was the first to be discovered by mathematical calculations instead of using a telescope. Because of Uranus' weird movements in its orbit (the line which a planet follows in moveing), it made astronomers search for the new planet. The planet was visited by only one spacecraft, "Voyager 2" on August 25, 1989. Neptune once had a huge storm known as the "Great Dark Spot" which was discovered in 1989 by Voyager 2. However, the dark spot was not seen in 1994, and new spots were found since then. It is not known why the dark spot disappeared. However, NASA suggested for a future spacecraft to orbit and learn more about Neptune. The spacecraft was to be shared between the Jet Propulsion Laboratory (JPL) and the California Institute of Technology. Discovery. The first possible sightings of Neptune is thought to be by Galileo as his drawings showed Neptune near Jupiter. But Galileo wasn't credited for the discovery since he thought Neptune was a "fixed star" instead of a planet. Because of Neptune's slow movement across the sky, Galileo's small telescope wasn't strong enough to detect Neptune as a planet. In 1821, Alexis Bouvard published the astronomical tables of the orbit of Uranus. Later observations showed that Uranus was moving in an irregular way in its orbit, making some astronomers think of another large body being the cause of the irregular motions of Uranus. In 1843, John Couch Adams calculated the orbit of an eighth planet that would possibly be influencing the orbit of Uranus. He sent his calculations to Sir George Airy, the Astronomer Royal, who asked Adams for an explanation. Adams began to make a copy of the reply, but never sent it. In 1846, Urbain Le Verrier, who wasn't working with Adams, created his own calculations but also had problems in encouraging any interest with his people. However, in the same year, John Herschel began to support the mathematical method and encouraged James Challis to search for the planet. After much delays, Challis began his unwilling search in July 1546. Meanwhile, Le Verrier had convinced Johann Gottfried Galle to search for the planet. Although Heinrich d'Arrest was still a student at the Berlin Observatory, he suggested that a newly drawn map of the sky, in the region of Le Verrier's predicted area, could be compared with the current sky to look for the displacement characteristic of a planet, as compared to a fixed star. Neptune was then discovered that very night on September 23, 1846, within 1° of where Le Verrier had predicted it to be, and about 10° from Adams' prediction. Challis later found out that he had seen the planet twice in August, failing to recognize it owing to his careless approach to the work. After the news of the discovery of Neptune spread, there was also a lot of nationalistic opposition between the French and the British about who was to be deserved credit for the discovery. Later, an international agreement decided that both Le Verrier and Adams together deserved credit. However, historians are now reviewing the topic after the rediscovery in 1998 of the "Neptune papers" (historical documents from the Royal Greenwich Observatory), which had seemingly been stolen by astronomer Olin Eggen for nearly three decades and were only rediscovered (in his ownership) right after his death. After reviewing the documents, some historians now think that Adams does not deserve equal credit with Le Verrier. Naming. Shortly after its discovery, Neptune was temporarily called as "the planet exterior to Uranus" or as "Le Verrier's planet". The first suggestion for a name came from Galle. He proposed the name "Janus". In England, Challis suggested the name "Oceanus". In France, Arago suggested that the new planet be called "Leverrier", a suggestion which was met with a lot of opposition outside France. French almanacs promptly reintroduced the name "Herschel" for "Uranus" and "Leverrier" for the new planet. Meanwhile, on separate and different reason, Adams suggested changing the name "Georgian" to "Uranus", while Leverrier (through the Board of Longitude) suggested "Neptune" for the new planet. Struve gave support of that name on December 29, 1846, to the Saint Petersburg Academy of Sciences. Soon "Neptune" was internationally agreed among many people and was then the official name for the new planet. In Roman mythology, Neptune was the god of the sea, identified with the Greek god, Poseidon. Mass and composition. At 10.243 kg, Neptune's mass puts the planet between Earth and the largest gas giants; Neptune has seventeen Earth masses but just 1/18th the mass of Jupiter. It and Uranus are often considered to be part of a sub-class of gas giant known as "ice giants", given their smaller size and big differences in composition compared to Jupiter and Saturn. In the search for extrasolar planets, Neptune has been used as a reference to determine the size and structure of the discovered planet. Some discovered planets that have similar masses like Neptune are often called as "Neptunes". just as astronomers refer to various extra-solar "Jupiters." The atmosphere of Neptune is made up mostly of hydrogen, with a smaller amount of helium. A timy amount of methane is also detected in the atmosphere. Important absorption bands of methane happen at wavelengths above 600 nm, in the red and infrared portion of the spectrum. This absorption of red light by the atmospheric methane gives Neptune its blue hue. Because Neptune orbits so far from the Sun, it gets very little heat with the uppermost regions of the atmosphere at −218 °C (55 K). Deeper inside the layers of gas, however, the temperature rises slowly. Like Uranus, the source of this heating is unknown, but the differences are larger: Neptune is the farthest planet from the Sun, yet its internal energy is strong enough to create the fastest winds seen in the Solar System. Several possible explanations have been suggested, including radiogenic heating from the planet's core, the continued radiation into space of leftover heat made by infalling matter during the planet's birth, and gravity waves breaking above the tropopause. Neptune's internal structure is basically very similar to that of Uranus' interior. There is likely to be a core, thought to be about 15 Earth masses, made up of molten rock and metal surrounded by a mixture of rock, water, ammonia, and methane. The heavy pressures keep the icy part of this surrounding mixture as solids, in spite of the large temperatures near the core. The atmosphere, extending about 10 to 20% of the way towards the center, is mostly hydrogen and helium at high altitudes. More mixtures of methane, ammonia, and water are found in the lower areas of the atmosphere. Very slowly this darker and hotter area blends into the superheated liquid interior. The pressure at the center of Neptune is millions of times more than that on the surface of Earth. Comparing its rotational speed to its degree of oblateness shows that it has its mass less concentrated towards the center unlike Uranus. Weather and magnetic field. One difference between Neptune and Uranus is the normal level of meteorological activity. When the Voyager spacecraft flew by Uranus in 1986 that planet was visually pretty much bland, while Neptune showed notable weather events during its 1989 Voyager fly-by. Neptune's atmosphere has the highest wind speeds in the solar system, thought to be powered by the flow of internal heat, and its weather is characterized by extremely active storm systems, with winds reaching up to around 2100 km/h, near-supersonic speeds. Even more regular winds in the banded equatorial region can have speeds of around 1,200 km/h (750 mph). In 1989, the Great Dark Spot, a cyclonic storm system the size of Eurasia, was discovered by NASA's "Voyager 2" spacecraft. The storm resembled the Great Red Spot of Jupiter. However, on November 2, 1994, the Hubble Space Telescope did not see the Great Dark Spot on the planet. Instead, a new storm similar to the Great Dark Spot was found in the planet's northern hemisphere. The reason why the Great Dark Spot's disappeared is unknown. One possible theory is that heat transfer from the planet's core disrupted the atmospheric balance and existing circulation patterns. The Scooter is another storm, a white cloud group more south than the Great Dark Spot. Its nickname was given when it was first noticed in the months leading up to the "Voyager" encounter in 1989: it moved faster than the Great Dark Spot. Later images showed clouds that moved even faster than Scooter. The Wizard's eye/"Dark Spot 2" is another southern cyclonic storm, the second most strongest storm seen during the 1989 encounter. It originally was completely dark, but as "Voyager" came closer to the planet, a bright core developed and is seen in most of the highest resolution images. Unlike other gas giants, Neptune's atmosphere shows the presence of high clouds making shadows on a thick cloud deck below. Though Neptune's atmosphere is much more active than that of Uranus, both planets are made up of the same gases and ices. Uranus and Neptune are not exactly the same type of gas giants like to Jupiter and Saturn, but are rather ice giants, meaning they have a larger solid core and are also made of ices. Neptune is very cold, with temperatures as low as −224 °C (−372 °F or 49 K) recorded at the cloud tops in 1989. Neptune also has similarities with Uranus in its magnetosphere, with a magnetic field strongly tilted comparative to its rotational axis at 47° and offset at least 0.55 radii (about 13,500 kilometres) from the planet's physical center. Comparing the magnetic fields of the two planets, scientists think the extreme course may be characteristic of flows in the interior of the planet and not the result of Uranus' sideways rotational movement. Neptune's Rings. Very small blue colored rings have been discovered around the blue planet, but they are not well known as the rings of Saturn. When these rings were discovered by a team led by Edward Guinan, originally they thought that the rings may not be complete rings. However, this was proven wrong by "Voyager 2". Neptune's planetary rings have a weird "clumpy" arrangement. Although the cause is currently unknown but some scientists think that it may be because of the gravitational contact with small moons that orbit near them. Proof that the rings are incomplete first began in the mid-1980s, when stellar occultation were found to rarely show an extra "blink" just before or after the planet occulted the star. Pictures from "Voyager 2" in 1989 solved the problem, when the ring system was found to have several faint rings. The farthest ring, Adams, has three famous arcs now named "Liberté", "Egalité", and "Fraternité" (Liberty, Equality, and Fraternity). The existence of arcs is very hard to understand because the laws of motion would predict that arcs spread out into a single ring in a very short time. The gravitational effects of Galatea, a moon just inward from the ring, are now thought to have created the arcs. Several other rings were discovered by the "Voyager" cameras. Also with the thin Adams Ring about 63,000 km from the center of Neptune, the Leverrier Ring is at 53,000 km and the wider, smaller Galle Ring is at 42,000 km. A very small outward expansion to the Leverrier Ring has been named Lassell; it is surrounded at its outer edge by the Arago Ring at 57,000 km. New Earth-based observations published in 2005 appeared to show that Neptune's rings are a lot more unstable than thought before. To be exact, it looks like that the "Liberté" ring might disappear maybe quickly in less than 100 years. The new observations seems to puzzle our understanding of Neptune's rings into a lot of confusion. Neptune's Moons. Neptune has a total of 13 known moons. The largest, and the only one big enough to have the shape of a sphere is Triton, discovered by William Lassell just 17 days after the discovery of Neptune itself. Unlike all other large planetary moons, Triton has a retrograde orbit, showing that the moon was probably captured, and maybe was once a Kuiper belt object. It is close enough to Neptune to be locked into a synchronous orbit, and is slowly moving into Neptune and will one day be torn apart when it passes the Roche limit. Triton is the coldest object that has been measured in the solar system, with temperatures of −235 °C (38 K, −392 °F). Neptune's second known moon (by order of distance), the odd moon Nereid, has one of the most unusual orbits of any satellite in the solar system. From July to September 1989, "Voyager 2" discovered six new moons of Neotune. Of these, the strangely shaped Proteus is well-known for being as large as a body of its density, that can survive without being shaped into a sphere by its own gravity. Although it's the second most massive Neptunian moon, it has only one quarter of one percent of the mass of Triton. Neptune's closest four moons, Naiad, Thalassa, Despina, and Galatea, orbit close enough to be inside Neptune's rings. The next farthest out, Larissa was originally discovered in 1981 when it had occulted a star. The moon was credited for causing Neptune's ring arcs when "Voyager 2" observed Neptune in 1989. Five new unusual moons discovered between 2002 and 2003 were announced in 2004. As Neptune was the Roman god of the sea, the planet's moons were named after lesser sea gods or goddesses. Observation. Neptune cannot be seen with naked eye alone, since Neptune's normal brightness are between magnitudes +7.7 and +8.0, which can be out-shined by Jupiter's Galilean moons, the dwarf planet Ceres, and the asteroids 4 Vesta, 2 Pallas, 7 Iris, 3 Juno and 6 Hebe. A telescope or strong binoculars will show Neptune as a small blue dot, similar in appearance to Uranus; the blue color comes from the methane in its atmosphere. Its small obvious size has made it difficult to study visually; most telescopic data was quite limited until the arrival of the Hubble Space Telescope and large ground-based telescopes with adaptive optics. With an orbital period (sidereal period) of 164.88 Julian years, Neptune will soon return (for the first time since its discovery) to the same place in the sky where it was discovered in 1846. This will happen three different times, also with a fourth in which it will come very close to being at that position. These are April 11, 2009, when it will be in prograde motion; July 17, 2009, when it will be in retrograde motion; and February 7, 2010, when it will be in prograde motion. It will also come very close to being at the same point since the 1846 discovery in late October through early-mid November 2010, when Neptune will turn from retrograde to direct motion on the exact degree of Neptune's discovery and will then stop for a moment along the ecliptic within 2 arc minutes at that point (closest on November 7, 2010). This will be the last time for about the next 165 years that Neptune will be at its point of discovery. This is explained by the idea of retrogradation. Like all planets and asteroids in the Solar System beyond Earth, Neptune goes through retrogradation at certain points during its synodic period. In addition to the start of retrogradation, other events inside the synodic period include astronomical opposition, the return to prograde motion, and conjunction to the Sun. In its orbit around the Sun, Neptune will return to its original point of discovery in August 2011. Exploration. Currently, only one spacecraft has visited Neptune. NASA's "Voyager 2" probe made a quick fly-by of the planet with its closest encounter on August 25, 1989, and was the last planet to have been visited by at least one spacecraft. Some of "Voyager 2"s important discoveries was its very close fly-by of Triton where took pictures of several parts of the moon. The probe also discovered the Great Dark Spot, although it has now disappeared after when the Hubble Space Telescope took pictures of Neptune in 1994. Originally thought to be a large cloud or cyclonic storm system, it was later guessed just to be a hole in the visible cloud deck. Neptune turned out to have the strongest winds of all the solar system's gas giants. In the outer regions of the solar system, where the Sun shines over 1000 times fainter than on Earth (still very bright with a magnitude of -21), the last of the four giants did happen as what the scientists actually expected. One might think that the farther a planet is from the Sun, the less energy and heat there would be to create and run the very strong winds around. The winds on Jupiter were already hundreds of kilometres per hour. Rather than seeing slower winds, the scientists found faster winds (over 1600 km/h) on more distant Neptune. One possible guess for the cause of the faster wind speeds is that if enough energy is produced, turbulence is created, which slows the winds down (like those of Jupiter). At Neptune however, there is so little solar energy that once winds are started they meet very little resistance, and are able to keep very high speeds. Anyhow, Neptune gives out more energy than it gets from the Sun, and the internal energy source of these winds remains undetermined. The pictures sent back to Earth from "Voyager 2" in 1989 became the basis of a PBS all-night program called "Neptune All Night".  
Nearctic Ecozone	The Nearctic Ecozone includes most of North America. In ecology, an ecozone is a large land mass that contains many terrestrial ecoregions, each of which has unique plants and animals.  
Negative	Negative is a word that has at least three separate meanings. If a person or a company has "negative net worth," this means that the money they owe to others is more than the money and other things they have or are going to get.  
No one	No One is an English idiom meaning "no person" or "no body". It is the opposite of "someone". It means effectively "no one who counts or can be heard or respected" or more exactly "zero persons that we are concerned with," whoever "we" (those making the statement or agreeing to it or thought to do so) are. It literally refers to "zero persons or voices". But this is not always exactly what is meant. It does not usually literally mean that absolutely no human body on Earth can be found that expresses the view or takes the position that "no one" takes. It means that the view or position can be safely ignored, and that those who take it can be singled out for social exclusion. So, for instance, it can be said that "No one in the United States supports communism." But of course there are a few such people, they are just not open or declared supporters, or not found, or they "should not be in" the US. Use of this term usually implies that an ideology is advocated or a challenge is being issued to find someone willing to state support for, or publicly do, the thing that no one is in favour of, or doing. To "volunteer someone" for instance, means that "no one" will actually volunteer, and that they must be conscripted instead by choice of someone other than themselves, say a commanding officer in the military. This term arises from US military jargon.  
Now	Now is the time span between the past and the future. It can be long (like an eon in geologic time) or short (like a picosecond) but it is almost always used to refer to the span between the present instant to some time horizon when a decision must be made. It can be used to ask or demand that someone make a decision even if they want to delay. "I want to know what you think, now." "Now is the time for all good people to come to the aid of their country." Mathematics and measurement assume that everything used in one equation equals the same quantities at the beginning of calculation or axiomatization as at the end. That means it is mathematically correct to say that the idea of "equal" means "equal from the time the process starts to the time it ends." In General Semantics and E Prime the words equal, remain (for the past until now) and become (for now into the future) replace the verb "to be" for this reason. Algebra is now often called snapshot algebra or algebra of seeing because of this dependance on time. If any action or event were possible between steps in algebraic analysis, then, in theory, one would have to start over as if one had no knowledge of the new state at all. For these reasons the idea of statistics and also knowledge and knowledge management are sometimes questioned, for instance, in the book "Lies, Damn Lies, and Statistics". A major issue is the comparing of numbers gathered in the past, and now, after some key conditions change.  
New York City, New York	New York City is the largest city in the United States. It is in the state of New York, which is in the northeast of the country. History. The oldest part of the city, the island of Manhattan, still has its original Lenape Native American name. Although Native people such as the Lenape and Canarsees had lived there for many thousands of years, New York City was first explored by Europeans in the 1500's. Italian explorer Giovanni da Verrazano found the entrance to New York Harbor in the year 1524 and English explorer Henry Hudson found the Hudson River in 1609. New York City was settled by Europeans from The Netherlands in 1624. The Dutch called the whole area of New York "Nieuw Nederland" and they named a fort and town on the south end of Manhattan Island Nieuw Amsterdam (New Amsterdam), after the capital city of the Netherlands, which was to become present-day New York. When the English took over the colony in 1664 they changed the name to New York, to honor the Duke of York, who later became King Charles II of England. The Dutch surrendered Nieuw Amsterdam without fighting. They were afraid of the English Navy so they traded the town to England for the colony of Surinam in South America, which they thought was worth more money. By the time the English came to New York, there were many other Dutch towns in what would become New York City, including Breukelen (Brooklyn), Vlissingen (Flushing), and Nieuw Haarlem (Harlem). There were already some English towns in the area also, such as Gravesend in Brooklyn and Newtown in Queens. Dutch and English people had been living together in New York for a long time. New York quickly grew to become a large and important port city. Many important battles of the American Revolution were fought in northern Manhattan and in Brooklyn. New York was the capital of the United States from 1789 until 1800. In 1898, the cities of New York and Brooklyn merged with the Bronx, Staten Island, and the towns in Queens County to form Greater New York. This is the total area of the City of New York today. Geography. New York City is an archipelago (group of islands) near the Atlantic Ocean. It is made up of two islands (Manhattan Island and Staten Island), part of an island (Brooklyn and Queens are on Long Island), and a small piece of the mainland (The Bronx), also many smaller islands. Water divides a lot of the city. The Hudson River forms the border between Manhattan and the Bronx and the State of New Jersey. The East River forms the border between Manhattan and Brooklyn and Queens. Newtown Creek is part of the border between Brooklyn and Queens. Some parts of the city are very separate from the others because of water, such as Far Rockaway in Queens and City Island in The Bronx. A small piece of land in Manhattan is international territory and it belongs to the United Nations to use for its buildings. New York City was made on the TV show Teen Titans and it was done for the movie Cloverfield. New York City currently has a population of about 8 million people. Over 18 million people live in the city and nearby areas. Most of the New York city population since the 1990s belongs to a US minority. Government. The current mayor of New York is Michael Bloomberg, an Independent. The city also has a City Council that makes some local laws. Most laws in New York City are set by the State government in Albany. Transportation. Subway transportation is provided by the New York City Subway system, one of the biggest in the world.  
October	October is the tenth month of the year and it has 31 days. The name comes from the Latin "oct" for "eight" (it was the eighth month of the year, before July and August were added by the Roman Emperors Augustus and Julius Caesar). October begins on the same day of week as previous January, except in leap years. October's flower is the Calendula with its birthstone being the Opal. The meaning of the Opal is Hope.  
Of	Of is a preposition used in the English language to show a possessive relationship. For example, the phrase "book of maps" means that the book has maps. The phrase "father of Mike" means the father that is being mentioned is Mike's father.  
One	One (1) is a natural number after zero and before two. A human typically has one head, nose, mouth, and navel (or belly-button). The Roman numeral is I. Language. It is also a pronoun, as in, "one says...", "one does...". It is used in place of "a person says..." or "an individual does...". Mathematics. In mathematics, one is also the only number with this special fact: Any number multiplied by 1 equals that number. Then, the number 1 divides any number but it is not divided by any. The number 1 divides any number to give that same number but it cannot be divided by any other number to give one as the answer. Let "n" be any number. Then "n"/1 = "n" but 1/"n" is never 1.(When n is not 1) Example: 7/1 = 7 but 1/7 is not 1 but 0.142857... Any number divided by itself always gives 1 as the answer. "n"/"n" = 1.(When n is not 0) Example: 7/7 = 1. Computer science. The number one is important for computer science because it is together with Zero a part of the Binary numeral system. In Machine code and in Programming languages one means true. Zero means false.  
O Canada	O Canada is the national anthem of Canada. Calixa Lavallée wrote the music; Adolphe-Basile Routhier wrote the words in French. It was first sung in French in 1880. Robert Stanley Weir wrote English words for the song in 1908. It was sung as the national anthem for many years before the government made it official in 1980. O Canada! Our home and native land, True patriot love in all thy sons command! With glowing hearts we see thee rise The True North strong and free, From far and wide, O Canada, We stand on guard for thee. God keep our land glorious and free! O Canada, we stand on guard for thee; O Canada, we stand on guard for thee. Here are the words in French. The words in French and English do not mean the same thing. Ô Canada! Terre de nos aĩeux, Ton front est ceint de fleurons glorieux! Car ton bras sait porter l'épée, Et ta valeur de foi trempée Protégera nos foyers et nos droits; Protégera nos foyers et nos droits.  
Oahu	Oahu is the third largest of the Hawaiian Islands, in the United States. It means "the gathering place" (a place where people meet) in the Hawaiian language. Most of the people of Hawaii live there (1.2 million of the state's 1.7 million in the mid-1990s). The total land area is 608 square miles (1,556 square kilometres). Honolulu, the capital city of Hawaii, is on this island. Other well-known places on Oahu are Waikiki, Pearl Harbor, Diamond Head, Hanauma Bay, Kaneohe Bay, and both the North Shore and Makaha (which are famous for very big ocean waves). Kamehameha I made Oahu his capital when he became the first king of Hawaii. Iolani Palace was built later on by others of the royal family. It is the only royal palace on American soil. Oahu was perhaps the first of the Hawaiian Islands which the crew of "HMS Resolution" saw on 18 January 1778. This was during Captain James Cook's third Pacific Ocean trip. Europeans did not land on Oahu until 28 February 1779 when Captain Clerke of the "HMS Resolution" stepped ashore at Waimea Bay. Clerke took command of the ship after Captain Cook was killed at Kealakekua Bay on February 14. Today, Oahu has become a tourism and shopping center. Almost 7 million visitors (mainly from the American mainland and Japan) go there every year to enjoy the special island holiday found only in Hawaii. Oahu can be seen in hundreds of movies and TV shows. Some of them are "Magnum P.I.", "LOST", "Hawaii Five-O" and "Jake and the Fatman".  
Open content	Open Content is when someone creates something and allows others to copy it or make changes without having to ask for permission. Any media can be open content, from text and pictures to video and sound. When someone creates something (like a picture or book), they can choose to make that work "open". This means that other people are allowed to copy it and change it if they want. Something that is open content may be free of charge, but it does not have to be. The Simple English Wikipedia is open content. So are other Wikipedias. If a person changes open content or makes new open content, everyone can give it to anyone else, or even sell it. It is never needed to ask permission to do this, because the people who wrote the text already gave their permission when they clicked the Save button. License. The rules that say how people can use, change and pass around open content are called a license. A license explains exactly what you are allowed to do with the content that falls under it. Licenses are often written in difficult lawyer language ("legalese"), but many licenses have summaries that are much easier to understand. The makers of open content get to choose what license to use for their work, and everyone else has to follow it. Only the maker, who owns the copyright, can change it to another license. Most open content licenses say that when others change the work, they must also declare it to be open and under the same license. This is called "share-alike" and means that anything based on work will always be open content. All the content in Wikipedia is open under the rules of the GNU Free Documentation License, a very well-known open content license. Other well-known open content licenses are the Creative Commons licenses.  
Orthography	Orthography, or spelling, is the correct order and combination of letters put together to form words. Spelling changes over time. At about the time of the Renaissance, words in English didn't have a fixed spelling. Over time, however, different combinations of letters became more common, resulting in the more standard spellings of words we see today. Differences in American English and British English prove that spelling is not set in stone. In the early nineteenth century, Noah Webster set out to change American English forever. He wished to distinguish American English spelling from British English spelling. In Noah Webster's dictionary, "practise" became "practice", "colour" became "color", and "centre" became "center". In doing this, Webster created a new identity for American English. Some people argue which language is the easiest to spell. No language is hard or easy, but people who learn a second language think that their first (native) language is the easiest. Languages which are phonetic can be easier to learn to spell than others. Phonetic languages are pronounced exactly as they are spelled and are spelled exactly as they are pronounced. The Italian word "orologio" for instance is pronounced oh-ro-LO-jo ("gi" always making a "j" sound.) In English, one comes across the word "knife". In "knife", the "k" is not spoken, even though in English it's more common to pronounce "K"s when they are in words. The spelling of the English language can be difficult because English is made up of many different languages, like Anglo-Saxon (a Germanic language) and French (a Romanic language.) English, Spanish, French, German, and other languages use the Roman alphabet. Other languages, like Greek, Russian, and Arabic, use other alphabets.  
Oil	The word oil is used for many different kinds of liquids. Oil usually does not mix with water. Some oils are made from plants and used in foods and for cooking. Some kinds of plant oils that people use are African oil palm, maize ("corn"), olive, peanut, soy, and sunflower. Other kinds of oil are made from crude oil ("petroleum") which comes from under the ground. People use large oil wells to bring the oil to the top of the ground. The oil is sent in special ships called tankers or in pipelines to factories called refineries where it is distilled into LPG, gasoline ("petrol"), diesel oil, and bitumen. Plastics are also normally made from crude oil. Oils from crude oil are also used as fuels for engines or to make the parts of machines work together without sticking or stopping. Different kinds of oils are also used for many other things, for example to make cosmetics, medicines, paints, and detergents, like washing up liquids. Soaps are similar to detergents, but they are generally made from animal fats rather than oils. There is also synthetic oil.  
OK	OK is a word in the English language. It is used to mean that something is good or correct. It can often be used instead of the word Yes. It is also the two-letter abbreviation for the state of Oklahoma in the United States of America. It is not certain where the word "OK" originally comes from, but some experts say it came from a funny way of writing "Ol Korrect" (All correct). You also find the phrase "Ola kala" in Greek, which means something like "Everything fine" and it could stem from Ancient Greek. Some people think that the word comes from the war. When no soldiers have been killed, they used 0 Killed (OK)  
Oxymoron	An oxymoron is made up of two or more words that seem to be opposite to each other, or actually are opposite. For example, the words "Wise fool", "Warm freezer", "Legal murder" all have two words. In each one, the one word looks like the opposite of the other word. You can have words that look opposite, but are right. For example, a "warm freezer" could be right. A freezer could be warm if it was turned off or left open. Words that really are opposite to each other, would be words that just cannot be put together. For example, a "round square" could not happen because squares are not round. Oxymorons sometimes appear in jokes. Sometimes, the joke is just to say that a pair of words are an oxymoron. For example, a joke that says that "honest politician" is an oxymoron. This means that politicians are dishonest, if the word 'politician' is opposite to 'honest'.  
Operating system	An operating system is what is needed to run the programs on a computer. It makes the link between programs and hardware. Windows and Mac OS X are popular operating systems. Less popular, but important, are operating systems like Linux, Unix, and Solaris. An operating system is a mixture of different parts: (these can change depending on the operating system) What an operating system does. Most casual computer users take their operating system for granted. The easiest way to understand what an operating system does is to take a close look at what computers were like before operating systmes were invented. The earliest electronic computers did not have any operating system. If the user wanted to change what the computer was doing, the user had to open the back panel on the (then very large) computer, and change how the wires were connected. Changing what the computer did was very time consuming and required an expert. Later, computer scientists decided that it was better to have the wires stay as they were, and feed instructions to the computer with punch cards or magnetic tape. The computer would store the instructions in some kind of memory. This way of operating a computer is called the von Neumann architecture. Still, computers of the time generally only had enough memory to "remember" one program at a time. If the user wanted the computer to run a different program, the user had to wipe out the first program from memory and then load another program into memory. Computer operators and computer scientists grew tired of carrying around large stacks of punch cards. They also wanted their computers to run more than one program at a time. As the memory capabilities of computers got better over the years, they decided that it would be better if the computer could hold several programs in its memory. The computer user could then simply choose which program they wanted to run. Running a computer this way requires a "boss" program that controls all the other program, and asks the user what program they want to run. Such a boss program is called an operating system. Having several progams in memory that can be run at any time presents some new problems. The operating system itself has to remember where the programs are at in memory. The operating system also has to prevent two programs from fighting over which one gets to use the processor. These days it is unthinkable to have a desktop computer without some kind of operating system. Operating systems generally start up automatically when the user turns on the computer.  
Philosophy	A philosophy is a way of thinking about the world, the universe, and about people. A philosophy is a group of ideas, worked out by a philosopher (someone who has studied ways of thinking about the world). The ideas in philosophy are "abstract", which means that they are "things that cannot be touched." But this does not mean that philosophy is not about the real world. Ethics, for example, asks what we should do in our everyday lives, and metaphysics asks about how the world works and what it is made of. Sometimes people talk about how they have a "personal philosophy", which means the way a person thinks about the world. This article is "not" about people's "personal philosophies." This article is about the ideas that have been thought about by philosophers (people who think and write about ways of thinking) for a long time. These ideas and questions from philosophy, and many more, have formed a large body of questions and knowledge that are written down in books. There are many different types of philosophy from different times and places. Some philosophers come from Ancient Greece, such as Plato and Aristotle. Others come from Asia, such as Confucius or Buddha. Some philosophers are from the Middle Ages in Europe, such as Scotus Erigena or Saint Thomas Aquinas. Philosophers from the 1600s, 1700s, and 1800s included Thomas Hobbes, René Descartes, John Locke, David Hume, and Immanuel Kant. Philosophers from the 1900s included Ludwig Wittgenstein and Jean-Paul Sartre. Where did the word come from? The word "philosophy" comes from two Greek words which mean 'love of wisdom'. Introduction. Philosophy is the study of humans and the world by thinking and asking questions. It is not part of science, because it is not an observation of things in the real world to find out how they work. Philosophy tries to answer important questions by coming up with answers about real things and asking "why?" Sometimes, philosophy tries to answer the same questions as religion and science. Philosophers do not all come up with the same answers to questions. Some people think there are no right answers in philosophy, only better answers and worse answers. Philosophy is a way of thinking in the "middle-ground" that is between science and religion. Many types of philosophy criticize or even attack the beliefs of science and religion. Categories in philosophy. Metaphysics is sometimes split up into ontology (the philosophy of real life and living things), the philosophy of mind and the philosophy of religion; but these sub-branches are very close together. Is philosophy good or bad? Does philosophy do any good? Very few people would dispute this. It is easy to argue that philosophy is a good thing, because it helps people to think more clearly. Philosophy helps people to understand the world and the way people act and think. Philosophers believe that asking philosophical questions is useful because it brings wisdom and helps people to learn about the world and each other. However, some people think that philosophy is harmful, as philosophy encourages free-thinking and often questions the beliefs that others hold. Philosophies such as some existentialist views say that there is no meaning to life or human existence, except the meaning that we make up or invent. People from some religions do not agree with the beliefs of existentialism. It should be noted that every major science, including physics, biology, and chemistry are all disciplines that originally were considered philosophy. As speculation and analysis about nature became more developed, these subjects branched away. This is a process that continues even today. Psychology only split in the past century. In our own time, subjects such as consciousness studies, decision theory, and applied ethics have increasingly found independence from philosophy as a whole. Because of this, philosophy seems useful because it makes new kinds of science. What philosophers do. Philosophers ask questions about ideas. They try to find answers to those questions. Some thinkers find it very hard to find those words that best describe the ideas they have. When they find answers to some of these questions philiosophers often have the same problem, that is how to best tell the answers they found to other people. Depending on the meaning of the words they use, the answers change. Some philosophers are full-time thinkers (called academics), who work for universities or colleges. These philosophers write books and articles about philosophy and teach classes about philosophy to university or college students. Other philosophers are just "hobby" thinkers who think about philosophy during their free time. A small number of hobby thinkers have thought so much about philosophy that they are able to write articles for philosophy magazines. Other people approach philosophy from another job. For example monks, artists, and scientists may think about philosophical ideas and questions. Most philosophers work by asking questions and looking for good definitions (meanings) of words to help them understand what a question means. Some philosophers say the only thing needed to answer a question is to find out what it means, and that the only thing that makes philosophical questions such as those above difficult is that people do not really know what they mean (for example Ludwig Wittgenstein). Philosophers will also often use both real and imaginary examples to make a point. For example, they may write about a real or fictional person in order to show what they think a good person or a bad person is like. Some philosophers look for the simplest way to answer a question and say that is probably the right answer. This is a process called Occam's razor. Others believe that complicated answers to questions can also be right. For an example of a philosophical problem, see the God paradox.  
Physics	Physics is the science of matter and how matter interacts. What is physics? Physics is the study of matter and energy in space and time and how they are related to each other. Physicists assume (take as given) the existence of mass, length, time, electric charge and temperature and then define (give the meaning of) all other physical quantities in terms of these basic units. Mass, length, time, electric charge and temperature are never defined but the standard units used to measure them are always defined. In the International System of Units, the meter is the basic unit of length, the kilogram is the basic unit of mass, the second is the basic unit of time, the coulomb is the basic unit of electric charge. Temperature may be expressed in degree Celsius, degree Fahrenheit, or in degree Kelvin. The International System of Units (abbreviated SI from the French Système International) is the world's most widely used system, both in everyday commerce and in science but the United States has not adopted it yet. Physics studies how things move, and the forces that make them move. For example, velocity and acceleration are used by physics to show how things move. Also, physicists study the forces of gravity, electricity, magnetism and the forces that hold matter together. Physics studies very large things, and very small things. For example, physics studies stars, planets and galaxies and other big pieces of matter. Physics also studies small pieces of matter, such as atoms and electrons. Physics also studies sound, light and other waves. Physics studies energy, heat and radioactivity, and even space and time. Physics not only helps people understand how objects move, but how they change form, how they make noise, how hot or cold they will be, and what they are made of at the smallest level. Physics uses numbers. Physics is a quantitative science because it is based on numerical measurements. Mathematics is used in physics to make models and predictions of how nature behaves. The predictions are compared to the way the real world works. Physicists are always working to make their models of the world better. General description. Physics is the science of matter and how matter interacts. Physics is used to describe the physical universe around us, and to predict how it will behave. Physics is the science concerned with the discovery and characterization of the universal laws which govern matter, movement and forces, and space and time, and other features of the natural world. Breadth and goals of physics. The sweep of physics is broad, from the tiniest components of matter and the forces that hold it together, to galaxies and even larger structures. There are only four forces that appear to operate over this entire range. However, even these four forces (gravity, electromagnetism, the weak force associated with radioactivity, and the strong force which holds atoms together) are believed to be different aspects of a single force. Physics is primarily focused on the goal of formulating ever simpler, more general, and more accurate rules that govern the character and behavior of matter and space itself. One of the major goals of physics is the formulation of theories of universal applicability. Therefore, physics can be viewed as the study of those universal laws which define, at the most fundamental level possible, the behavior of the physical universe. Physics uses the scientific method. Physics uses the scientific method. That is, data from experiments and observations are collected. Theories which attempt to explain these data are produced. Physics uses these theories to not only describe physical phenomena, but to model physical systems and predict how these physical systems will behave. Physicists then compare these predictions to observations or experimental evidence to show whether the theory is right or wrong. The theories that are well supported by data and are especially simple and general are sometimes called scientific laws. Of course, all theories, including those known as laws, can be replaced by more accurate and more general laws, when a disagreement with data is found. Physics is Quantitative. Physics is more quantitative than most other sciences. That is, many of the observations in physics may be represented in the form of numerical measurements. Most of the theories in physics use mathematics to express their principles. Most of the predictions from these theories are numerical. This is because of the areas which physics has addressed are more amenable to quantitative approaches than other areas. Sciences also tend to become more quantitative with time as they become more highly developed, and physics is one of the older sciences. Fields of physics. Classical physics traditionally included the fields of mechanics, optics, electricity, magnetism, acoustics and thermodynamics. Modern physics is a term normally used to cover fields which rely on quantum theory, including quantum mechanics, atomic physics, nuclear physics, particle physics and condensed matter physics, as well as the more modern fields of general and special relativity. Although this distinction can be commonly found in older writings, it is of limited current significance as quantum effects are now understood to be of importance even in fields previously considered purely classical. Approaches in physics. There are many approaches to studying physics, and many different kinds of actitivies in physics. There are two main types of activities in physics; the collection of data and the development of theories. The data in some subfields of physics is amenable to experiment. For example, condensed matter physics and nuclear physics benefit from the ability to perform experiments. Experimental physics focuses mainly on an empirical approach. Sometimes experiments are done to explore nature, and in other cases experiments are performed to produce data to compare with the predictions of theories. Some other fields in physics like astrophysics and geophysics are primarily observational sciences because most their data has to be collected passively instead of through experimentation. Nevertheless, observational programs in these fields uses many of the same tools and technology that are used in the experimental subfields of physics. Theoretical physics often uses quantitative approaches to develop the theories that attempt to explain the data. In this way, theoretical physics often relies heavily on tools from mathematics. Theoretical physics often can involve creating quantitative predictions of physical theories, and comparing these predictions quantitatively with data. Theoretical physics sometimes creates models of physical systems before data is available to test and validate these models. These two main activities in physics, data collection and theory production and testing, draw on many different skills. This has led to a lot of specialization in physics, and the introduction, development and use of tools from other fields. For example, theoretical physicists apply mathematics and numerical analysis and statistics and probability and computers and computer software in their work. Experimental physicists develop instruments and techniques for collecting data, drawing on engineering and computer technology and many other fields of technology. Often the tools from these other areas are not quite appropriate for the needs of physics, and need to be adapted or more advanced versions have to be produced. Physicists. There are many famous physicists. Isaac Newton studied gravity. Galileo Galilei studied light and how planets move. Albert Einstein made a theory for how light can make electrons move, and studied how gravity affects light and space. Heinrich Hertz discovered that light is a type of electromagnetic wave. Ernest Rutherford said that "Physics is the only real science. The rest are just stamp collecting."  
Politics	Politics are the way that people living in groups make decisions. Politics is about making agreements between people so that they can live together in groups such as tribes, cities, or countries. In large groups, such as countries, some people may spend a lot of their time making such agreements. These people are called politicians. Politicians, and sometimes other people, may get together to form a government. The study of politics in universities is called political science, political studies, or public administration. In everyday life, the term "politics" refers to the way that countries are governed, and to the ways that governments make rules and laws. But politics can also be seen in other groups, too, such as in big companies, schools, and churches. Governments. One of the ways the government leads the group is by making laws and rules which tell everybody what they can and can not do. The government makes these laws so that society will be safe and well-ordered. The law that "you must not drink alcohol while driving a car" stops people from drunk driving, which could kill people. The law "you must wear a helmet on a motorcycle" makes sure that people protect themselves. The government can also control people and what happens in a country in other ways besides making laws. Politics is often compared to ethics (ideas about right and wrong). Ethics is a more abstract study of right and wrong. Ethics is usually more concerned with principle than law or politics or diplomacy, so many people think ethics is not practical. But without some agreement on ethics, there is probably no way to even have a public debate, a legal system or an election. There is always some agreement on ethics and personal conduct in a political system. Political parties. In most countries, people have formed political parties to put forward their ideas. There is usually some disagreement between people within a party, but they work together because they feel that they agree on enough things, and they will have more power if they join together. They agree to take the same position on many issues, and agree to support the same changes to law and the same leaders. An election is usually a competition between different parties. Left-wing and right-wing political parties. University professors of political science and politicians often divide politics into two sides: left-wing politics and right-wing politics. This simplified model helps to explain the main differences of opinion held by different people. A person who believes in right-wing political ideas often believes in moral and social conservatism, law and order, and free trade. A person who believes in left-wing political ideas often believes that the money of a country should be given to the poor people in a country, and that the government should be involved more in the economy. History. The Greek philosopher Aristotle wrote that humans are a political animal and that ethics and politics are closely linked. Niccolo Machiavelli wrote that politics was firstly about having and keeping power. He said that without power, a leader could do nothing. In 1651, Thomas Hobbes wrote "Leviathan", a book about politics. Hobbes wrote that people living in groups often give up some of their rights in exchange for some protections from a government. In the 1800s, John Stuart Mill developed the "liberal" idea of politics. Mill said that democracy is the most important political development of the 1800s. He said that there should be more protection for individual rights against the government. Bernard Crick wrote a list of the political virtues, which were about best practices of politics itself. International politics. There are also disagreements between different countries. Attempts to solve the problem with meetings and negotiations are then called diplomacy. This is just politics between nations instead of politics within nations. If the problems are very serious, and they are not resolved by diplomatic meetings they can lead to war.  
Value (personal and cultural)	A value (or principle) usually means an abstract rule, one that can be seen to apply in many experiences, or can be applied by choice in a lot of situations. It can also mean a moral choice one makes often and consistently, for example, a Buddhist avoids eating meat as a matter of principle. Many groups of people agree on lists of principles. They may also try to agree on the order in which they are to apply, that is, which principles should be violated before which other ones. They might also try to list best practices which reflect the principles in the right order, and provide more practical (less abstract) instruction.  
Profanity	Profanity is the act of using rude words. The adjective is profane. Profanities can also be called swear words, curse ("cuss") words, dirty words, bad words, foul language, obscenity or obscene language, or expletives. It can be called an oath, although this word also has a normal meaning of a "solemn promise". Religious profanity is called blasphemy. The verb is to blaspheme and the adjective is blasphemous. Saying “God!” or “Jesus Christ!” as an expression of surprise or annoyance is considered by many people to be blasphemy, mostly because one of the Ten Commandments says not to use God's name "in vain" (without a good reason). Swearing oaths is also considered wrong by some who follow Jesus' teaching against swearing oaths in the Gospels (such as Matt. 5:34). A profanity usually refers to religion, sex, or bodily functions. These are things that people feel very strongly about. In some languages, such as French, there is more profanity about religion than most other topics. Russian has more about defecation and the lower digestive tract. A profanity can be a word or gesture or some other form of behaviour. Different words can be profanity to different people, and what words are thought of as profanity in English can change over time. Whether a word is a profanity will always depend on the way people think. Some people will be offended by something, while others are not. Words which should not be used are taboo words. Using such words is thought by some people to be a sin. Opinions on profanity. Some people call profanity "crude," but some say that it is no cruder to say "damn" than "puke" (a word that is simply vulgar, but not a swear word). People who use profanity do not always mean to make anybody feel bad, and tolerance for different forms of profanity can vary widely, from person to person. Most often, using profanity is a verbal outlet for strong feelings (usually unpleasant ones), that might otherwise cause a physical reaction. At other times, some people may use profanity as humor. Coprolalia. Some people develop a mental condition where they use profanity constantly. This is called coprolalia. Many people wrongly think this is called Tourette's syndrome. Tourette's syndrome is actually a group of disorders that only includes coprolalia 15% of the time. The condition can be aggravated (made worse) by stress. Common examples of profanity. Several of these words come from Anglo-Saxon or Norse names for body parts, and bodily functions. They came to be thought of as profanity mostly after the Normans brought French and Latin words for them to England. Profane gestures. These are mostly performed while facing another person, and can be meant toward them, or about them. These gestures are considered as strong as profane words in most cases.  
People's Republic of China	The People's Republic of China (PRC) (Chinese language: Simplified Chinese: 中华人民共和国, Traditional Chinese:中華人民共和國) is a communist country in eastern Asia. It was founded by the Communist Party of China on 1 October, 1949. It has the most people of any country in the world (over 1.3 billion people). The capital city is Beijing, and Shanghai is the biggest city. United Kingdom and Portugal returned Hong Kong and Macao back to China in 1997 and 1999 respectively. These two cities remain highly autonomy. The central government is responsible for defense and foreign affairs but not the daily operations for 50 years. PRC claims Taiwan as one of the many provinces. However, PRC does not have control of Taiwan which has a democratic political system and officially known as the Republic of China (Taiwan). History. Chinese civilization has been around since the second millennium B.C.E. as a feudal society. Its land area has mostly looked like that of modern China, except with northern and western edges that varied often. It has been commonly attacked by the northern people, such as Genghis Khan and Kublai Khan. While China achieved many things in the first millennium C.E. and early second millennium C.E., it became an isolationist country in the 15th century C.E. By the Renaissance, European powers started to take over other countries in Asia. While China was never actually taken over, many European countries, such as Britain & French built spheres of influence in China. Since China had cut itself off from the world over the previous few centuries, it had fallen behind other countries in technology, and was helpless to stop this from happening. This had become clear when it lost the Opium Wars to Britain in the 19th century. In 1911, the monarchy was overthrown by Sun Yat-sen, who started a Nationalist government. Over time, Marxist philosophies grew under the Nationalist rule. In 1927, the Chinese Civil War started, which was fought by the Nationalist leader Chiang Kai-shek and the Communist leaders. Mao Zedong gradually took over the power within the Communist Party whose army was called the "Red Army." At the background, Japan continued to expand their influence and control of north and northeast provinces of China. The Nationalists and Communists joined to fight Japan. The conflict became part of, and led to, World War II. After the war against Japanese, civil war started again. By 1949, the Red Army won. Chiang Kai-shek and the Nationalists fled to Taiwan. Mao Zedong has been in power, although for a long period of time he did not have official position in the government, as the leader of China until he died in 1976. During that time, China had bad relations with the Western World. In the late '60s and early '70s, PRC is even more isolated after the Sino-Soviet split. Before Mao died, initial contact with US took place in order to counter the threat from USSR. All though the initial 30 years of governing, the Communist Party, led by Mao Zedong, has eliminated free-thinking in politics, economics and academic aspects. The "peak" of all these is known as the Cultural Revolution which is a disaster in human history, not only because millions of people were killed, but also because the traditional value system was destroyed as a result. The Communist Party is still not willing to admit the fault and a lot of criminal actions associated with the Cultural Revolution. After Mao, Deng Xiaoping, as one of the 1st generation Communist Party leaders, took power and launched the "Change and Open" Policy. In 1979, because of the overpopulation problem in China, he made the one-child policy, which put a limit on how many children couples can have. In August 2008, China hosted the Summer Olympics for the first time. People and Culture. There are 56 different ethnic groups in China, with Han the majority (92%). The Communist Party of China controls the government. Mandarin Chinese is the main spoken language.  
Power structure	A power structure is a system to decide who can decide, and for how long their decision stands, and who can be forced to comply with their decision. In democracy this is done by educating people in the issues and then voting - in an election to choose leaders, or a referendum to actually choose one option from several. Competing power networks each form a political party and each offers only one leader or one option to the public, to simplify the issues to make decisions possible. After the decision, they typically do not fight it to the point of civil war, but wait for the next election. In dictatorship this is done by asking one powerful person to make the decision and then agreeing to force everyone to follow it. Any who won't are exiled, imprisoned, or killed, even if the decision is not very important, since the refusal to follow is taken as a challenge to the power structure itself. There is only one power network and all others are forced to become part of it, or fight it. Civil war is much more common in a dictatorship than in a democracy. A monarchy is a traditional form of dictatorship. Over time the advisors, and eventually the actual decision makers, have become elected in many countries. Also limits are put on the powers of the monarch - to make constitutional monarchy. For more on this and other theories of power, see civics.  
Psychoneuroimmunology	Psychoneuroimmunology or mind-body medicine is a view of medicine and health. It partly explains healing as a process of regaining balances - not as curing. Disturbing and correcting forces, which may be molecules or hormones, are treated in a more abstract and social way than in most other medicine. Family and other social network connections play a very major role in healing in this view, and are more important than drugs. Much biology supports this view. Some immune system responses cannot be explained unless it is strongly linked to the nervous system, and the senses. Examples are the type of epileptic seizure that can only be triggered by light, or an allergy that goes off if only a few molecules, not even enough to smell, are received into the nose. Also there are cases of people with HIV who have lived a very long time - with almost no functioning immune system - only their positive attitude seems to make them different from those who die. Sometimes the whole system is compared to a symphony orchestra in your body. There are different types of instruments playing, in sections, which are like the different systems in your body. Rhythm and overall level of stress matter much more than how any individual part of the system works. Rest and sleep matter a great deal, just as they would for symphony players. An important difference between this view and other medicine is that someone is not just "sick" until they are "well", but will go through periods of time feeling sick, and feeling well, as a part of the rhythms starting to work. So a child for instance should not just go to bed and stay there for a period of time, but should be able to get up and do things, even if they have to go back to bed quickly afterward to rest some more. Dr. Esther Sternberg, an expert in this field, believes that the body has its own internal way of restoring its balance and that doctors usually cannot improve these. In 500 BC, she says, it was common to build temples to Asclepius, the god of healing, and they had long sloping ramps to let sick people use them. There were hospital like cells, and healthy food and fresh water was served. Removing day to day stress, getting enough sleep, and music, dreams, exercise, nutrition, prayer, and interaction with others, was all part of the method. Advocates of this approach to healing believe that modern hospitals are making mistakes by isolating the sick unless they are infectious - which is good for others but not necessarily for the sick themselves.  
Political party	A political party is an organized group of voters. It often puts forward candidates for public office. In a democracy, leaders must "run for office" in an election. In a dictatorship, thhttp://upload.wikimedia.org/skins/common/images/button_media.png File linkere is generally only one party allowed, that can approve a new leader without non-members having a choice. About. A political party is similar to a faction, and can be the same thing. In some systems, members of one party in the legislature are all expected to vote the same way. The laws written by the party or faction with the majority of votes become adopted by the country, so this means whatever party is elected to over half the seats, gets to run the government. The next largest party is often called the "opposition". Sometimes when there are more than two parties with seats, no one party has over half of the seats. Then two or more parties might join together to form what is called a "coalition". Some parties are formed around a single issue or interest group. Others form policies to address all matters of government, known as a "platform". Many political parties have a set of ideas and beliefs (called its "ideology"). People often describe these ideologies using words such as "rightwing" and "leftwing". Common ideologies include environmentalism, socialism (ranging from social democracy to Marxism and Communism), conservatism, democracy, liberalism, and nationalism. The law. Political parties can be against the law in some places. When some parties get a lot of power, they can make all other political parties illegal. For example, the Nazi Party did this in Germany, and the Communist Party did it in several countries. Some countries make extreme-right parties illegal (such as Vlaams Blok in Belgium). At other times, countries have outlawed far-left parties. For example, West Germany banned the Communist Party in 1956. A handful of countries like China, North Korea and Cuba still have one-party dictatorships. In a few other dictatorships, such as Saudi Arabia, all political parties are banned and there is no parliament at all. Importance in all big democracies. In all big democratic countries, parties are very important. But there are a few very small countries, such as the island of Jersey, where most politicians don't belong to any party and where parties do not matter much. In some democracies, there are only two big political parties. For example, in the United States, there is the Democratic Party and the Republican Party. Some other parties exist but are very small and do not hold seats in Congress. In other countries there are larger numbers of parties. In the German federal Parliament (or Bundestag), six parties have seats. In the United Kingdom, there are two big parties, one medium-sized party, and many small ones.  
Pet	A pet is a domesticated animal that lives with people, but is not forced to work and is not eaten, in most instances. In most cases, a pet is kept to entertain people or for companionship. Dogs, cats, fish, birds are the most common pets in North America. Horses, elephants, oxen, and donkeys are usually made to work, so they are not usually called pets. Some dogs also do work for people, and it was once common for some birds (like falcons and carrier pigeons) to work for humans. The cap'tchi tribe in Sudan is known for the ritual burning of domesticated animals that are considered too sacred to eat.  
Program	The term Program can be used in many ways.  
Platonic realism	Platonic realism (also called Platonism" or Anti realism") is the philosophical idea that one must try to know about perfect things, even though you know that they do not exist and may not be able to be understood. It is named after the philosopher Plato. Plato thought that goodness was part of reality, but was part of a parallel 'perfect' universe. Plato thought it was the job of the philosopher to look for reflections of these perfect things in our universe and to teach others about what they found. In philosophy of mathematics, someone is called a Platonist if they believe a mathematical proof is part of reality, but also that it is not part of our universe but a parallel 'perfect' one. Mathematical Platonists also believe that numbers are not related to things in our universe, and that even if there was never a group of one million things that the number one million would still be a real number. Some think this idea affects our ideas about money (economics) and our ideas of time. It is hard to say if this is true, since platonism is so basic in the Western culture. Plato and his student Aristotle had many ideas which are still the most important in this culture. It is hard to say if this one was critical. God's eye view may be more important, especially in politics. Today, Platonism is mostly considered a philosophy of mathematics but not of science or reality in general. This might under-estimate its effects. But no one calls themselves Platonist other than a few mathematicians today.  
Paradox	A paradox is a sentence in logic that cannot be true but also cannot be false. Many famous problems of this kind exist. One of most famous paradoxes is called the liar's paradox. It is the simple sentence "This sentence is a lie." If the sentence is true, then it is a lie, as it says. But if it is a lie, how can it be true? A lie cannot also be the truth. So the sentence being true makes it a lie. If the sentence is a lie, then it is not as it says, it is true. But that is just what the sentence says. So that makes it true. So the sentence being a lie makes it true. This paradox is not just true in English but in any language powerful enough for a sentence to make a claim about itself. This is true of mathematics as well. Paradox can never be removed from any symbol system that makes claims about itself. Another example is the statement that there is no cabal. Only a cabal can know if there is no cabal, so this is either a guess, or, it is a cabal trying to pretend it does not exist. A paradox can also arise in ethics. Taking power over others is often also required to protect them, but also, one of the things being protected is their ability to do as they please, which this power interferes with. There is another article on ethical dilemma which means "a paradox arising in ethics". Because a paradox forces us to think "out of the box", about possibilities other than true or false in logic, right or wrong in morality, it is considered very important in education. People who do not see a paradox where others do, are likely to be too certain they are right.  
Potato	A potato is a kind of vegetable, or the vegetable that grows this fruit. It contains a lot of starch and other carbohydrates The potato plant grows well in many different parts of the world. It is a small plant with large leaves. The part of the potato that people eat grows under the ground. It usually has a brown or pink skin and is white or yellow inside. The potato is not very good to eat unless it is cooked. People cook potatoes by boiling, roasting, or frying them. French fries or "chips" are potatoes cut into long pieces and fried until they are soft. Potato chips or potato crisps are potatoes cut into very thin round pieces and fried until they are hard. The potato was first grown and eaten in the Andes Mountains of South America. When the Europeans came to South America, they brought the potato back to Europe. The scientific name of the potato plant is "Solanum tuberosum".  
Plant	Plants are living things. Plants are not animals so they do not need to eat other living things to live. They are usually fixed to one location in the ground. Plants make food for themselves using sunlight, water, certain minerals (nitrogen, potassium and phosphorous), and carbon dioxide. They are one of five big groups (kingdoms) of living things. Plants grow upward. The heat from the sunlight pulls the water and food from the ground through the roots, and toward tiny holes at the other end of the plant. These little holes are mostly on the plant's leaves. This is called transpiration. The word "plant" can also mean to put something in the ground. For example, farmers plant seeds in the ground. Flowering plants. Plants need sunlight to grow green. If plants are grown without sunlight they turn yellow and grow tall. This is because they are looking for sunlight which boosts the plant's chlorophyll levels which, in turn, help it grow green. Plants generally produce flowers and flowers produce nice smells, unless they produce bad smells.  
Prediction	A prediction is a statement that someone makes about what they think is going to happen. It is often very helpful to know what is going to happen to help prepare for these future events. Predictions are based on the idea that two beginning positions that are like each other will have similar results. By watching something happen, it is possible to predict what will happen if something similar happens. Predictions are given by science or fortune tellers or horoscopes. The most common example of a prediction is the weather forecast. Studying how weather happens lets people predict what the weather will be by looking at what is currently happening. This is helpful because by knowing that it is going to rain, a person can wear the right clothes for it. Nostradamus has made many predictions about future.  
Probability	Probability is a part of mathematics. It is to do with chance, the study of things that might happen or might not happen. For example, using probability, you can show that if you throw a coin up in the air and let it land, half of the time it will land with one side facing up, and half the time with the other side facing up. Many coins have a picture of the face of a famous person on one side, and something else on the other side. Often people call the side with the face "heads", and the other side "tails". The probability (p) of an event is always between zero (impossible) and one (certain). If we roll a die (plural: dice), then the chance that it will land on 1 is 1/6 (This is because there are 6 numbers on a die). Also, the chance it will land on 2 is 1/6. This is because it can land on 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, or 6. The chance of any number between 1 and 6 landing is 1. Every time we roll the die, it will always land on a number between 1 and 6.  
Probability experiment	A probability experiment is a situation where chance affects the outcome. A coin flip is a probability experiment because chance affects whether a coin will land heads or tails when it is flipped.  
Protein	Proteins are large molecules built from small units known as amino acids. They are used for growth and repair, as well as for strengthening the bones. They help to make tissue and cells. They can be found in animals, plants, fungi, bacteria, and also in the human body. For example, muscles contain a lot of proteins. Body builders will eat foods with a lot of protein as an easy way to keep or gain high levels of muscles that is safer than taking steroids. Proteins form an important part in foods like milk, eggs, meat, fish, beans, and nuts. Animals eat proteins to get energy and amino acids. These amino acids are used to build new proteins that are used as enzymes, hormones, or antibodies. Protein is also very healthy and keeps you strong and makes your bones last. Proteins are essential for life. "Proteins" were discovered by Berzelius, in 1838.  
Periodic table	The periodic table of the chemical elements is a list of known atoms (chemical elements). In the table the elements are placed in the order of their atomic numbers starting with the lowest number. The atomic number of an element is the same as the number of electrons or protons in the atom. Doctor Laurence George Tyson mentions the air molecules. In the periodic table the elements are arranged into "molecules" and "gangs". A row of elements across the table is called a "period". Each period has a number: from 1 to 7. Period 1 has only 2 elements in it: hydrogen and helium. Period 2 and Period 3 both have 8 elements. Other periods are longer. A row of elements down the table is called a "group". There are 18 groups in the standard periodic table. Each group has a number: from 1 to 18. Elements in a group have electrons arranged in similar ways, which gives them similar chemical properties (they behave in similar ways). For example, group 18 is known as the noble gases because they are all gases and they do not combine with other atoms. The periodic table can be used by chemists to observe patterns, and relationships between the elements. For example, elements to the top and far left of the table are the most metallic, and elements on the bottom right are the least metallic. (e.g lithium is much more metallic than xenon). There are also many other patterns and relationships. There are three systems of group numbers; one using Arabic numerals (1,2,3) and the other two using Roman numerals (I, II, III). The Roman numeral names were used at first and are the traditional names; the Arabic numeral names are newer names that the International Union of Pure and Applied Chemistry (IUPAC) decided to use as well. The IUPAC names were meant to replace the older Roman numeral systems as they used the same names to mean different things, which was confusing. The Periodic Table was invented and arranged by the Russian chemist Dmitri Mendeleev (1834-1907). He got the idea from his favorite card game, Patience. Standard periodic table. Chemical Series of the Periodic Table State at standard temperature and pressure  
Physiology	Physiology is the study of how living things function and the processes involved. Physiologists study how different parts or organs of an organism work together to achieve a particular function. In human beings, for example, the digestion of food involves the action of hormones and other chemicals produced by the stomach, liver, and pancreas. Muscle contraction occurs through the action of chemical messengers produced by nerves that supply the muscle. By learning how the body functions normally, physiologists and physicians are better able to understand what happens when organs function abnormally. For example, an understanding of how the thyroid gland functions has helped in the treatment of a condition called goitre. Studies of the circulatory system and of the nervous system have helped physicians understand and treat such illnesses as heart disease, stroke, and high blood pressure.  
Planet	A planet is a large object such as Earth or Jupiter that orbits a star. It is smaller than a star, and it does not make light. Planets are ball-shaped (spheres). Objects that orbit planets are called moons. There are eight planets in the Solar System. Pluto used to be known as a planet, but in August 2006, a group of astronomers decided it should be called a dwarf planet instead. There are four more known ice dwarfs, Ceres, Makemake, Eris and Haumea. The name "planet" is from the Greek word πλανήτης ("planetes"), meaning "wanderers", or "things that move". Until the 1990s, people only knew of those in the Solar System. As of January 2007, we know of 209 other planets. All of the newly found planets are orbiting other stars: they are "extrasolar" planets. Sometimes people call them "exoplanets". In the Solar System. The planets in the Solar System have names of Greek or Roman gods, apart from Earth, because people did not think Earth was a planet in old times. However, Earth is occasionally referred by the name of a Roman god: "Terra". Other languages, for example Chinese, use different names. Moons also have names of gods and people from classical mythology, or from the plays of Shakespeare. Planets. Here is a list of planets in the Solar System. They are ordered by how close they are to the Sun, nearest first. Types of planets. Astronomers speak about "major" (or true) planets, and minor planets, which are smaller objects that go around the Sun. Some examples of "minor planets" are asteroids, comets, and trans-Neptunian objects. Many objects in the Solar System that are not planets are also "icy". Examples are the icy moons of the outer planets of the Solar System (like Triton).  
Pluto	orbit: 5,913,520,000 km (39.5 AU) from the Sun (average) Pluto is a dwarf planet in our Solar System. It is made of rock and ice. It is very cold on Pluto with temperatures between -218°C (about -360 Fahrenheit) and -240°C (-400 Fahrenheit). Pluto is 2390 kilometres across, which is about two-thirds as wide as the Moon and about one fifth as wide as the Earth. Pluto is thirteen million tonnes in mass. The Earth has about 460 times the mass of Pluto. The Moon has about five and a half times the mass of Pluto. Clyde Tombaugh found Pluto in 1930. Pluto was named after the Roman god of hell. This name was suggested by Venetia Burney from England. She was eleven years old at the time. Others say it was named using the initials of Percival Lowell, the scientist who had computed its position in the sky years before Pluto actual discovery. Pluto has three moons: Charon, Nix, and Hydra. Charon is 1190 km across, half as wide as Pluto. Charon is about 19,410 km away from Pluto. Pluto and Charon spin around each other making the two look like a double dwarf planet. Nix and Hydra are much smaller, about 45-160 km across, about 44,000 km from Pluto. Charon was found in June 1978 and Nix and Hydra were found in June 2005. There are eight planets in the Solar System. Pluto is very different from these eight planets. It is smaller than them and follows a different kind of path around the Sun. Pluto sometimes gets closer to the Sun than Neptune, because of the path it follows. Mercury is the Solar System's smallest planet. Mercury is about twice as wide as Pluto. Mercury has about twenty-five times the mass of Pluto. Pluto used to the ninth planet of the solar system. However, in August 2006 the International Astronomical Union said that Pluto should not be called a planet anymore. They said that it should be called a dwarf planet instead. This is because Pluto is very different from the other eight planets, and does not completely fill the accepted scientific definition of a proper planet.  
Political problems of China	The People's Republic of China claims that the island of Taiwan is part of its territory, but the Republic of China (which was the government that controlled all of China from 1911 to 1949) still controls it. Many people say the government stops people from having freedom of speech, freedom of religion and other political rights that people in democratic countries have. Territorial disputes. The following territories are claimed by China (PRC and/or ROC) and by another country or more. Lost territories (Unequal treaties). Unequal treaties were forced onto Asian countries when European imperialism reached Asia. The list includes claims from PRC and ROC, as well as unofficial historical claims. "Note: Japan's and Korea's unequal treaties have been resolved since the end of WWII."  
Police	The Police (or "police force") are a government organization that is given special authority to enforce (that is, to make effective or working) their government's laws against different crimes. Police officers investigate burglaries or murders and patrol highways and cities to make sure that people do not break the law.The building they work in is often called a "police station". Parts of police departments. Most police departments have most of their officers in two main groups: a "patrol" section which has uniformed officers, and a "detective" section that has officers who wear ordinary clothing. Police departments in different countries. In different places and countries, the "police" includes members of the "sheriff's office, marshal's office," or "public safety department." In Ireland, they are called "gardai", in Russia, "militsiyaner," and in French speaking countries, they may also be called "surete" or "gendarmerie." In the United States, there are many different kinds of police for different types of areas and situations, such as state police and local police.  
Pi	pi is the number found when the distance around a circle (the circumference) is divided by the distance between opposite ends of the circle (the diameter). The value of pi is around 3.141592654. A common fraction approximation of pi is formula_3, which yields 3.14285714. This approximation has an error of about 0.04%. While this approximation is sufficient for most applications, the fraction formula_4 is more accurate (giving 3.14159292), and can be used when a more precise calculation is needed. Pi is often written as the Greek letter π. Pi is an irrational number, meaning it cannot be written as a fraction (formula_5). This basically means that pi goes on forever, and that it is impossible to get pi exactly. However, it is very useful in many ways, not just measuring circles. Mathematicians have known about pi for thousands of years. The first known approximations of pi are from around 1900 BC, and are 25/8 (by the Babylonians) and 256/81 (by the Egyptians). The most common way of finding pi has been to inscribe (draw) a shape of many sides in a circle, and use the area of the polygon to find out pi. These polygons could range from 96 sides (as used by Archimedes) to more than 16,384 sides (as used by the ancient Chinese in around 500 AD.)And also it is used to work out the area and the circumference of a circle. The formula for the circumference is C(circumference)= pi times diameter. The formula for finding the area of a circle is pi (radius²). Pi in real life. Today, there are are different ways to calculate many digits of formula_2. This is of limited use though.  
Proper noun	A proper noun is a noun that has the first letter capitalized. Names of places and people are proper nouns.  
Plastic	A plastic is a material that can change its shape, so many things can be made of plastic. There are many types of plastic. Some can be shaped only when they are freshly made; then they become hard afterwards. Others can be changed by heating them up or even by melting them. Most plastics are man-made; they do not occur in nature. They are often made from oil that comes out of the ground. The process of making plastics is usually quite complicated. Most of the materials that are called "plastic" are polymers. Polymers are long chains of atoms bonded to one another. People experimented with plastics based on natural polymers for a very long time. Alexander Parkes, an English inventor (1813-1890), created the earliest fom of plastic in 1855. It was hard but flexible and transparent, and he called it "Parkensine." Plastic is filling up the landfills and sometimes if you burn them, they release toxic fumes. If you don't recycle, it becomes waste.  
Product stewardship	Product stewardship includes waste disposal measures in the distribution chain of an industrial product. That is, paying for the safe and proper disposal when you pay for the product, and relying on those who sold it to you, to dispose of it. The slightly more specific idea of product take-back means that the service of waste disposal is paid for at time of purchase. It is often applied to paint, tires, and other goods that become toxic waste if not disposed of properly. It is most familiar as the deposit bottle - where one pays for the loan of the bottle at the same time as one purchases what is inside it. The container deposit charged for a deposit bottle may be a fee to "buy" the bottle, separately from the fee to buy what it contains. If one returns the bottle, the fee is returned, and the supplier must return the bottle for re-use or recycling. If not, one has paid the fee, and presumably this can pay for landfill or litter control measures that dispose of say a broken bottle. Also, since the same fee can be collected by anyone finding and returning the bottle, it is common for people to collect these and return them as a means of surviving. This is quite common for instance among homeless people in U.S. cities. This principle is applied very broadly beyond bottles to paint and automobile parts such as tires. When purchasing paint or tires in many places, one simultaneously pays for the disposal of the toxic waste they become. In some countries, such as Germany, law requires attention to the comprehensive outcome of the whole extraction, production, distribution, use and waste of a product, and holds those profiting from these legally responsible for any outcome along the way. This is also the trend in the UK and EU generally. In the United States, there have been many class action suits that are effectively product stewardship liability - holding companies responsible for things the product does, which it was never advertised to do. Rather than let liability for these problems be taken up by the public sector or be haphazardly assigned one issue at a time to companies via lawsuits, many accounting reform efforts focus on achieving full cost accounting. This is the financial reflection of the comprehensive outcome - noting the gains and losses to all parties involved, not just those investing or purchasing. Such moves have made moral purchasing more attractive, as it avoids liability and future lawsuits. So these are partial implementations of a strict service economy ideal. Those who advocate these measures are concerned with the later phases of product lifecycle and the comprehensive outcome of the whole production process. It is considered a pre-requisite to a strict service economy interpretation of (fictional, national, legal) "commodity" and "product" relationships.  
Peace	Peace is a time without any fights or wars. In a larger sense, peace (or peacefulness) can mean a state of harmony, quiet or calm that is not disturbed by anything at all, like a still pond with no ripples. Peace within and among states is a goal of many people and organizations. One organization that was set up to bring peace among the nations and try to make war a thing of the past was the League of Nations after World War I. When it failed to stop World War II, it was replaced by the United Nations which tries to make the world peaceful by standing for collective security between all the members. This means that if any member is attacked or invaded by another country without attacking that country first, the other members will come to help the country that was attacked first. This idea was used by the United Nations to defend both South Korea and Kuwait when they were attacked. Martin Luther King Jr. wrote in a that, "True peace is not merely the absence of tension: it is the presence of justice." In other words, Real peace is more than just problems being gone: there must be fairness to have peace.  
Quebec	Quebec (spelled Québec in French) is a province in Eastern Canada. It is the biggest of Canada's ten provinces. It is the province with the second-highest number of people. Most of Quebec's inhabitants live along or close to the banks of the Saint Lawrence River. Not many people live in the north part of the province. Unlike the other provinces, most people in Quebec speak French. There is a strong French-language culture, which includes French-language newspapers, magazines, television and radio shows, and movies. The government of Quebec has its offices in the capital, Quebec City, one of the oldest cities in North America. The largest city in Quebec, and the second-largest city in Canada, is Montreal. Quebec has a lot of natural resources that are used to create jobs. Quebec also has many companies that create products for information and communication technologies, aerospace, biotechnology, and health industries. It has also developed close relations with the Northeastern United States. Leaving Canada. Quebec was part of New France until 1760. Quebec became a province in the Canadian Confederation in 1867. Since then, some people in Quebec have wanted to leave Canada. Since Quebec is a mainly French-speaking province, many people there feel that it is very different from the rest of Canada, and they are proud of this difference and want to keep it that way. Some feel that for this to happen, Quebec must leave Canada and become its own country. Others feel that it is important for Quebec to stay a part of Canada. Quebec people held democratic votes in 1980 and 1995 to decide whether to leave Canada. In 1995, the people of Quebec voted on the question, and chose to stay in Canada by a one percent margin. Motto: "Je me souviens" (I remember) History of Quebec. Aboriginal people and Inuit groups were the first peoples who lived in what is now Québec. These Aboriginal people lived by hunting, gathering, and fishing. Some of the Aboriginal people, called Iroquoians, planted squash and maize. The Inuit fish and hunt whales and seals for fur and food, and they sometimes warred with each other. Vikings came in longboats from Scandinavia in 1000 CE. Basque whalers and fishermen traded furs with Aboriginal people throughout the 1500s. The first French explorer to reach Quebec was Jacques Cartier. He sailed into the St. Lawrence River in 1535 and established a colony near present-day Quebec City. Samuel de Champlain came from France and traveled into the St. Lawrence River. In 1608, he founded Quebec City as a permanent fur trading outpost. Champlain signed trading and military agreements with the Aboriginal people. Voyageurs, coureurs des bois, and Catholic missionaries used river canoes to explore the interior of the North American continent. After 1627, King Louis XIII of France made a rule that only Roman Catholics could go to live in New France. Jesuit clerics tried to convert New France's Aboriginal people to Catholicism. New France became a Royal Province of France in 1663. The population grew from about 3,000 to 60,000 people between 1666 and 1760. Colonists built farms on the banks of St. Lawrence River. In 1753 France began building a series of forts in the British Ohio Country. Britain asked the French to remove the forts, and the French refused. By 1756, France and Britain were at war. In 1758, the British attacked New France by sea and captured the French fort at Louisbourg. On 1759, British General James Wolfe defeated General Louis-Joseph de Montcalm outside Quebec City. France gave its North American land to Great Britain in 1763. In 1763, New France was renamed the Province of Quebec. In 1774, the British Parliament passed the Quebec Act giving recognition to French law, Catholic religion and French language in the colony. The Quebec Act gave the Quebec people their first Charter of rights. The Quebec Act made American colonists angry, so they launched the American Revolution. A 1775 invasion by the American Continental Army was stopped at Quebec City. In 1783, Quebec gave the territory south of the Great Lakes to the new United States of America. In 1867 the Parliament of the United Kingdom passed the British North America Act, which brought most of the provinces together. Quiet Revolution. The conservative government of Maurice Duplessis dominated Quebec politics from 1944 to 1960 with the support of the Catholic church. The Quiet Revolution was a period of social and political change. During the Quiet Revolution, English Canadians lost their control over the Quebec economy, the Roman Catholic Church became less important, and the Quebec government took over the hydro-electric companies. in 1963, a terrorist group that became known as the Front de libération du Québec (FLQ) began doing bombings, robberies and attacks on government offices. In 1970, the FLQ kidnapped and killed James Cross, the British trade commissioner to Canada, and Pierre Laporte, a provincial minister and Vice-Premier. Prime Minister Pierre Trudeau invoked the War Measures Act, and 497 people were arrested. This was called the Quiet Revolution because there was not a whole bunch of protests. In 1977, the newly elected Parti Québécois government of René Lévesque introduced the Charter of the French Language. Often known as Bill 101, it defined French as the only official language of Quebec.  
Reading	Reading is a way of getting information from something that is written. Reading involves recognising the symbols that make up a language. Reading and hearing are the two most common ways to get information. Information gained from reading can include entertainment, especially when reading fiction or humor. Reading by people is mostly done from paper. Stone, or chalk on a blackboard can also be read. Computer displays can be read. Reading can be something that someone does by themself or they can read aloud. This could be to benefit other listeners. It could also be to help your own concentration. "Proofreading" is a kind of reading that is done to find mistakes in a piece of writing.  
Religion	Religion is a word for the ideas about the basic structure of the world that people cannot see or know with our other senses, or that scientists cannot study with machines. There are many different religions in the world. Religions try to answer important but mysterious questions like "Where did the world come from?" and "What happens to us after we die?" When people believe that they have answers to these questions, they often start new religions, or add their new ideas to old religions. Many religions believe in supernatural beings such as spirits, angels, devils, polytheistic gods, or a monotheistic god, who can influence people and the world. People who teach or write about religion often say that they got their ideas from a supernatural being. Many religions are very old, but new religions are always being created when some people aren't satisfied with the answers from the old religions. Things which are considered important and good by religions are called sacred or holy. Many religions have sacred books that give the most important ideas and stories of their religions. Religions often teach how they believe people should behave in order to live happily together and/or to please God. Many religions believe that people who live in the right way will go to a pleasant place, or (heaven), after they die, or that people who live in a wrong way will go to a bad place, or (hell). How long one stays in these places depends on which belief system is asked. Hindus and Buddhists believe in temporary heavens and hells, where people go for being either extremely righteous or extremly evil, before uniting with God. Christians and Muslims, on the other hand, believe that heaven and hell are eternal states. Some religions believe in the "Resurrection" - that God will bring some, most or all dead people alive again one day; while other religions believe in "Reincarnation" - that people will be born again as a new person or as an animal after they die. Usually this is believed to be according to how a person acts in their previous life. Some religions believe a mixture of all of these ideas. Most religions teach people to be good and to help each other, but unfortunately religions also sometimes create problems. This is partly because the questions of religion are so important to people, and because it is difficult to be sure which answers are correct. Many people are unhappy when other people do not agree with their ideas about religion, or when they think that people will cause problems for their religion. When this happens, people sometimes make wars against people of other religions, or punish people who do not agree with their ideas about religion. This has happened many times in history, and continues to happen today. At other times, wars have been begun for more selfish reasons that had really nothing to do with religion, but in order to win more support for these wars, the kings or politicians would try hard to make it seem to be about religion, or would give the people a supposedly 'religious' reason for fighting a war. Many religions build buildings for their people to meet. In different religions, these buildings may be called churches, mosques, synagogues, temples, pathis, or shrines. Many of the oldest, most beautiful, and most famous buildings are religious buildings. Opposed to any form of religion is atheism, its argumentation can be support by such conceptions like Law of three stages "See List of religions for more."  
Roman	The Romans are the people of the city of Rome in Italy. In ancient times the people of the city of Rome created a very large empire called the Roman Empire.  
Rudyard Kipling	Joseph Rudyard Kipling (December 30, 1865 - January 18, 1936) was an English author and poet. He wrote the children's book "The Jungle Book". He also wrote the well-known poems, "If —" and "Gunga Din". Death. Kipling is buried in Westminster Abbey.  
Recreation	Recreation or fun is the use of time refreshing to one's body or mind.  
Red	Red is the color that is on the outside edge of the rainbow. It is one of the three primary colors, along with blue and yellow. Red light has a wavelength between 630-760 nanometers. Red is the color of blood and tomatoes. It is sometimes used to mark things that are wrong, important, or dangerous. Meaning of Red. Red can represent passion, anger, or love. In many countries, a red light shows cars when they should stop. In politics, "red" is related to Communism. The "Red Army" can refer to the army of the old Soviet Union, or the People's Republic of China. It is also related to the Red Brigade. Red is the color of fire and blood, so it is associated with energy, war, danger, strength, power, determination, as well as passion, desire, and love. Red is an emotionally intense color. It is thought that it tends to raise blood pressure and make people breathe faster. It is very easy to notice, which is why stop signs, stoplights, and fire equipment are usually painted red. In heraldry, red is often used to indicate courage. It is a color found in many national flags. Red brings attention to text and images. It is a perfect color for 'Buy Now' or 'Click Here' buttons on Internet banners and websites, because it may make some people want to act quickly. In advertising, red is often used to cause erotic feelings (red lips, red nails, red-light districts, 'Lady in Red', etc). Red is widely used to indicate danger (high voltage signs, traffic lights). This color is also associated with energy, so it may be used to promote energy drinks, games, cars, items related to sports and high physical activity.  
Raw	Foods are raw when they are not cooked. Most things are good to eat raw, but some, such as eggplants, can be poisonous. Health. It is healthier to eat raw food rather than cooked food, because the nutrients and enzymes are harmed when they are cooked. Raw food is easier to digest than cooked food. People who start to eat only raw foods need time to adjust their diet, because they are used to digesting cooked foods. Most people who start to eat only raw foods start to feel much better. They do not get sick as often as people who eat mostly cooked food, and they also live longer. Germs. Raw food can sometimes make people sick because of germs.  
Roman Empire	"For Roman emperors, see Roman emperors." The Roman Empire was a very big empire with its capital in Rome, ruled by an emperor. The first emperor of Rome was Octavian, from the year 27 B.C.E. Before that, Rome had been a Republic ruled by a council called the "Senate." Many modern countries are on land that was once part of the Roman Empire, including England (without Scotland), Spain, Portugal, France, Italy, Greece, Turkey, Germany, Egypt, and the north coast of Africa. The language of the Roman Empire was Latin. The western part of the Roman Empire continued for almost 1000 years, and the eastern part, including Greece and Turkey, continued for about a thousand years more. The eastern part was called the Byzantine Empire with a capital at Constantinople. In order to control their large empire, the Romans developed important ideas about law and government. Many emperors had absolute control, and could do as they pleased. When the emperor died, his favorite friend whom he had adopted as a son often became the next emperor, since many of them never had sons of their own. After a while, the emperors grew so weak that the military would just pick one of their generals to be the next emperor. Many times they would have civil wars to see which general was the most powerful. The Romans fought many wars against other countries, and enjoyed watching violent sports. They enjoyed watching races between chariots pulled by horses, and fights between men using weapons (gladiators). Unlike modern sports, the fighters were often killed in these fights. They enjoyed these shows in the Roman Colosseum. The Romans built many big buildings, aqueducts to carry water, and very good stone bridges and roads. Some of these things can still be seen today. Many famous writers were also Romans, including Cicero and Virgil. The New Testament of the Bible tells about the Romans in the life of Jesus Christ. During Jesus' life, the Romans, who were pagan controlled his country. Later, several emperors tried to destroy Christianity in any way possible, but they could not. The people were becoming Christian, even though the pagan emperors called themselves gods. By 312 C.E., the emperor Galerius allowed people freedom to follow Christianity, and the next year, a Christian general, named Constantine, defeated the pagans and became emperor over what was already a largely Christian land. The main coin of the Roman Empire was the denarius. It was spent often by the wealthy, often on luxuries. The city of Rome was taken over several times by barbarians, notably in 410 C.E. when the Goths sacked, or stole the goods of, the city. The last Western Roman emperor, Romulus Augustulus, resigned in 476 C.E. The Roman Empire would last another 1,000 years as the Byzantine Empire in the east.  
Regime	A regime is the leader and other people who run a government of a sovereign state. There are many kinds of regimes. They can achieve power in many ways. Depending on the time and place and local civics like the electoral system, they can lose power in many ways too. The most common way for a regime to lose power was a coup, invasion or revolution until the 20th century. After that it became very dangerous and difficult to use these methods. Peaceful regime change is usually by an election - this method is now used by more than half the people on the Earth. It is called representative democracy. Such regimes are often called administrations to make it clear they are not dictators, and since the executive branch does not have all the power itself - it may share it with a legislative branch. Also the judicial branch is separate. The courts are not usually considered part of the regime. When many regimes negotiate at the United Nations or World Trade Organization, it does not matter at all how each regime got its power. It matters only that they can agree and make everyone in their country do as the agreement says. When someone wants a regime to change in another country, they usually are not able to do this by any means other than violence or interfering in its election. This is common if a regime is threatened by another regime.  
River	A river is a stream of water that flows through a "channel" (or passage) in the surface of the ground. The passage where the river flows is called the riverbed and the earth on each side is called a riverbank. A river begins on high ground or in hills or mountains and flows down from the high ground to the lower ground, because of gravity. A river begins as a small stream and gets bigger, the further that it flows. The water in a river is called "fresh water". It comes from rain or snow and it can usually be drunk safely, unless it has been polluted. The water in a sea cannot be drunk safely because it is "salt water". Both people and animals often live near rivers, because they need water to survive. The beginning of a river. The beginning of a river is called its "source" or its "headwaters". The part of the river that is near the "source" is called a "young river". A young river is often in a V-shaped river bed, and flows quickly downhill over stones, and around big rocks. Young rivers often have lots of small waterfalls. The middle part of a river. The middle part of a river is called a "mature river". A mature river makes a riverbed that is U-shaped. It might be very deep and run fast. It sweeps over small rocks and bolders, and makes big turns around hills and mountains. It is much wider than a "young river", but not as wide as an "old river". To cross over a mature river, people use bridges. Many cities and towns are built on the banks of mature rivers. Many farms that keep animals such as dairy cows, horses and sheep are found along mature rivers because the animals can drink from the river every day. The last part of a river. A river usually ends by flowing into an ocean, a lake or a bigger river. The place where the river flows out into a bigger body of water is called the "mouth" of the river. As a river flows towards its mouth, the countryside around the river often changes from hilly to flat. As it flows over the flat land the river becomes wider and slower. A wide slow river is called an "old river". An "old river" often floods across the land after there is lots of rain at the "headwaters". An "old river" slowly builds up its banks on either side; the high banks are called "levees". An old river often "meanders" (twists and turns), and sometimes, after a flood, it leaves lakes behind which are called "ox-bows" or "billabongs". Old rivers are the most useful type of river for growing crops. Corn, rice, fruit, cotton, hay, tobacco and sugar are some of the crops that are grown near old rivers. Where a river flows out to the sea, it sometimes flows very slowly through sandy or muddy land, making lots of little islands as it flows. The main stream of the river gets broken into many parts that spread out into a triangle shape like the Greek letter "Delta". When this happens, it is called the "delta" of the river. Deltas are often places that are not good for towns or farms but are very good for birds and other wildlife. Deltas are often made into wildlife reserves. Not all rivers have deltas. There are famous deltas on the Nile River, the Amazon River, the Mekong River and the Danube River. Using rivers. The water in rivers is "fresh water" that has come from rain, snow and from underground streams. It can be drunk safely by people unless it is too dirty because of mud or human pollution. People and animals need fresh water to drink, so they often live by the side of a river.  
Right angle	A right angle is an angle with a measurement of 90 degrees. When two lines cross each other so that all the angles have the same size, the result is four right angles. The top of the letter T is at right angles to the vertical line. Walls of buildings are usually at right angles to the floor. Two things that are at right angles are called "perpendicular".  
Reward	A reward is getting something good for doing a given task. It needs someone who has the power to give the good thing. It is the opposite of punishment. Ideas like risk and reward, reward and punishment are based on the idea that people do things, or avoid doing things, to get rewards. In psychology there is another idea that this is not true. This other idea says that training (conditioning) and emotions (affective factors) are much more important than the rewards or punishments given by others. In trying to catch criminals and other bad people, the government often offers money to people. This money is given to people who may capture the criminal, or give information that helps the police catch them. For example after the Eureka Stockade rebellion in Ballarat, Victoria in 1854, the government offered a big reward of 400 pounds for the capture of the people who had started it. In 2001, the US government offered a big reward of 2.5 million dollars for help in capturing the person who had sent anthrax in letters to a newspaper journalist and 2 senators. Anthrax is a disease which can kill people.  
Ranch	A ranch is a large farm where animals such as cows, horses or sheep are raised. A ranch is often on private land. The word ranch is from the Spanish word "rancho". Ranches are often found in the desert regions of Australia because of the plenty of available space.  
Sport utility vehicle	A sport utility vehicle (SUV) is a type of vehicle that can carry lots of passengers, like a station wagon or minivan. Appearence. SUVs are shaped like a big station wagon. However, they are taller, because the seats are more upright and because they have a taller suspension so that they can go off road. (However, less than 10 percent of these vehicles actually do go off road.) Another way that many SUVs are different from some regular cars is that many SUVs have four-wheel-drive, but most regular cars only have two-wheel-drive. Also, many SUVs have larger engines, like a six- or an eight-cylinder engine. In some countries, SUVs often have diesel engines. Design. SUVs come from designs that were originally military or commercial, such as the Jeep and the Land Rover. These vehicles have been popular for many years with rural people because they can go off-road, but now they are also popular with people in urban areas because they believe that they look good. Modern designing. Consequently, newer SUVs are more like cars because buyers like it that way. Instead of buying a car they buy a SUV that's designed like a car. They have luxury features and more car-like suspensions and ride heights. This is because most of these newer SUVs seldom go off-road, but stay on the street most of the time. Uses. However, some people do take their SUVs off the road to explore places that they could not go with a car, and to enjoy the driving. Because of this, there are many off-road clubs in different countries. SUVs are even raced, such as in the Paris-Dakar Rally and the Australian Safari. Also, there are many fun things you can do with a SUV. For example, you can tow a boat with an SUV. Advantages. There are many reasons why SUVs have become popular. One reason is the comfort of their large cabins--they can carry almost as much as a minivan. Another reason is that people think they are safe. Image. Finally, a major reason why they are popular is that they have a rugged, powerful image. People buy them because they look good, even though a small car might be less expensive and more practical. Automobile companies have sold many SUVs. They make more profit on them per vehicle than with other automobiles, because they are cheaper and simpler to build than many passenger cars of equivalent price. Problems. Many people have bought SUVs, but now many people do not like them anymore, because SUVs are bad for the environment and dangerous to other drivers. In addition, these people think that the SUVs are not really as safe as people believe they are. Accidents. One problem with SUVs is that they roll over more easily than lower vehicles. In recent years Consumer Reports magazine found several SUVs unacceptable because they roll over too easily. Also, they are big and stiff, and they have high bumpers, so when they hit another car, the other car and its passengers can be severely damaged. Big, heavy SUVs like Ford Excursions and Chevrolet Suburbans can damage cars badly when they hit them. Huge gasoline consumption. SUVs have become so popular in the United States that the U.S. is using much more gasoline than before. SUVs are much less fuel-efficient than cars. The main reason is that the U.S. government classifies them as small trucks, so they do not have to be as fuel efficient as passenger cars. Since auto companies have little reason to change SUVs, they are fuel-inefficient. They are big and heavy, have a lot of wind resistance, and have big engines and a heavy suspension. They also use tires that are better for off road than for driving on the street. Smaller SUVs that look like cars may be shorter and use better tires, but they still have big, fuel-inefficient, polluting engines. Other names. In Australia and Europe SUVs are usually called 4 wheel drives (4X4)or 4WDs.  
Substance	Substance ["sub'-stuns"] is the material, or "matter", of which something is made. Substances can be seen or touched. They are made up of one or more elemental parts. Iron, aluminium, water and air are examples of substances.  
Symbol	A symbol is a drawing, shape, or object that represents an idea, object, or amount of something. The most common symbols are letters, which are symbols of words and sounds. A symbol can be an actual object, such as the crucifix (a symbol of Christianity) and the scepter (which symbolizes royalty and power). Symbols can even be colors or patterns. Symbols are used often in poetry and other types of literature, most often used as metaphors or similes. A national emblem is a symbol for a certain country. List of common symbols. There are thousands of symbols that are recognized by most people all over the world, and many more that are limited to certain regions, religions, sciences, etc.. Some of the best known ones are listed below.  
September	September is the ninth month of the year with 30 days. From the Latin word "sept" for "seven" (it was the seventh month of the year, before January and February were moved at the beginning of the year). September begins on the same day of week as December every year. In Ancient Greece, September was called "Boedromion". September's flower is the Aster with the birthstone being the Sapphire. The meaning of the Sapphire is Love.  
Sound	We can define a sound wave as a disturbance which travels through some medium. Sound is the term to describe what is heard when sound waves pass through a medium to the ear. Sound is produced by mechanical vibrations. Sound can travel through solids, liquids, and gases, but it cannot travel through a vacuum. The travelling speed of sound in the air is 331.5 m/s at 0 °C. The speed of sound increases as the temperature of the air increases to 343 m/s at 20 °C. Sound is a longitudinal wave. It shows reflection, refraction, diffraction, and interference. Audible sound has frequencies between 20 Hz to 20 kHz. Human beings can hear audible sound. Sound waves with frequency above 20 kHz are called ultrasound waves. Sound waves with frequency below 20 Hz are called infrasound waves. Human beings cannot hear ultrasound waves and infrasound waves.  
Society	Society is the term to describe human beings together (collective, the sum of their social networks and power networks). It does not refer to everything everybody thinks or does, but only to those things that everybody acts upon - or refuses to do - quite reliably. Because it must keep even the poorest and weakest members of a society willing to help even the richest and strongest, a society is very concerned with citizenship, rights, ethics and time limits. These are basic ways to achieve fairness. If they break down badly, people will think the society is unfair and start taking things from each other, refusing to help each other, or seeing those who have more as cheats. While every society is different, the way it breaks down and fails is very often the same: fraud, theft, violence, war and sometimes even genocide if people stop identifying with the society and thus identify with what they think of as a "race" of people. A new society may be formed out of only those who still agree, or who just survive the collapse of an old failed one. If the strength and unity of any society's members' willingness to help each other is to be measured, it is called social capital, because it substitutes for other styles of capital. One needs less money with more solidarity in society, because the collective substitutes for the currency. However, usually, the strength is not directly measured, but only assumed. People take risks that society will support them, without knowing for sure that it will. For instance, they may refuse to obey the law, and count on their fellow society members to free them in a jury or court of appeal. A social contract sets out rules for this kind of cooperation. One kind of social contract is a constitution - which allows for a jury or court to decide that the law, not the person, is wrong, according to the society's rules.  
Suggestion	A suggestion is an idea that one suggests, or says is good for another (or others) to follow.  
Spache Readability Formula	Spache Readability Formula is one method of finding out how hard a piece of writing is (its textual difficulty). The method compares words in a text to a list of words which are familiar in everyday writing. The words that are not on the list are called "unfamiliar". The number of words per sentence are counted. This number and the percentage of unfamiliar words is put into a formula. The result is a reading age. Someone of this age should be able to read the text. Spache works best on texts that are for children under the age of eight. the formula; (0.141 * average sentence length)+(0.086 * percentage of difficult words)+0.839 = grade level GL = (.121 * ASL) + (.082 *UW) +.659 UW = Number of unique unfamiliar words  
Sport	A sport is an activity that has rules and usually requires physical activity, like running. Sports can keep people active and healthy. They can be played indoors or outdoors.  
Science	Science is a way to find out things. Sometimes the word "science" is used to refer to the knowledge that is found using the methods of science. The word "science" is from the Latin word "scio", which means "to know". People who do science are called scientists. Scientists study things by looking at them very carefully, by measuring them, and by doing experiments and tests. Scientists try to explain why things act the way they do, and are the way they are. Scientific method. The "scientific method" is the name given to the methods used in science to learn and experiment with things. The scientific method can be very useful. Most people accept the scientific method as the most reliable way to get knowledge about nature, the universe, and the human body. Other features of science. Not everyone agrees about how science works exactly. Some philosophers and scientists say that scientific theories are only accepted as long as they are the best explanation for the data that exists, and when theories no longer explain the data, they are discarded and replaced. Other people say that sometimes scientists will make a theory better rather than discard it, or that they will keep on using the theory hoping that it will be made better eventually. Scientists compete with each other. Scientists check each other's work. Scientists try to make better explanations for the data. Scientists publish their work in peer-reviewed journals. Science is a way to get knowledge by discarding what is not true. Scientists must be very careful to make explanations that fit well with what they observe and measure. They compete to provide better explanations. An explanation might be interesting or pleasing, but if it does not agree with what other scientists really see and measure, they will try to find a better explanation. Other scientists check their ideas to see if the real observations, measurements, and tests show if they are right or wrong. Peer review and repeating experiments is the only way to be sure the knowledge is correct. Science makes models of nature, models of our universe, and medicine. There are many different sciences with their own names. However it is not right to say "science says" any one thing. Science is a process, not just the facts and rules believed at one time.  
Spain	Spain is a country in the southwest of Europe. It is in the Iberian Peninsula near Portugal and Gibraltar. France and the little country of Andorra are on its northeast side, where the Pyrenees mountains are. The people of Spain are called "Spaniards". Most people there speak Spanish, "Español" in Spanish, but there are other languages in different parts of the country. They are Catalan, Basque, and Galician, Leonese, Aragonese, Aranese Occitan and even Portuguese. The religion of most of the people in Spain is Roman Catholic. Since 1975, Spain has had a king, who only does what the constitution allows him to. For example the king formally declares a war, but only if the Government asks him to do so. The parliament is called "Las Cortes Generales", and has two bodies: "El Congreso" and "El Senado" and it is chosen by the Spanish people by voting. This kind of government is called a constitutional monarchy. The King of Spain is called Juan Carlos I. The President of the executive branch of the government is José Luis Rodríguez Zapatero. The government and the king's palace are in Madrid, the capital of Spain. Spain has more than five hundred thousand square kilometres of land. It is smaller than France, but it is bigger than Sweden or Germany. Around forty-three million people live in Spain. Spain has 17 parts called autonomous communities (this means that they can decide upon some affairs themselves). Each part has its own government. Early history. People have lived in Spain for a long time. There have been people living there since the Stone Age. The first references to Spain are in the Bible. Some of the first people to live there were Iberians and Celts, and the Phoenicians made a few cities there to get tin and silver to trade. Later, the Roman Empire controlled Spain for about five hundred years; then as the Roman Empire broke up, groups of Germanic people called Visigoths moved into Spain and took it over. Muslim occupation. In the 700s, Arabic people took over, and later groups from North Africa, called the Moors, ruled most of Spain for eight hundred years. They were Muslims, and Muslim Spain was the farthest western point of Islamic civilization. This civilization was quite advanced at architecture and urban planning. The Moors were very wealthy because they controlled the gold trade from the Ghana Empire in West Africa. They built many beautiful buildings, especially in the south of the country, a place called Al-Andalus. People can see many of their buildings still standing in cities in Andalusia, such as Seville, Granada, and Cordoba. Muslim Spain was multicultural and tolerant with Jews, Christians and Muslims living side by side. There was also a huge Slavic population ("saqaliba") near the Mediterranean coast, at first brought in to be slaves, but many Slavic generals rose to become rulers of their own cities ("taifas") for a short time as the Caliphate of Cordoba fell apart in the early 11th century. Muslim Spain was focused on learning - the greatest library system outside Baghdad was also there. 1492. The Christian kingdoms that were still in the North of Spain fought to take the rest Spain again from the Muslims. They fought wars for many hundreds of years, and slowly pushed the border farther south. Many Christians from the north of Spain and Europe moved into the areas they won. In the year 1492, they took the last part of Spain that still belonged to the Moors, Granada. Boabdil, the last Moorish King of Granada, surrendered to King Ferdinand II of Aragon and Isabella of Castile on 2 January 1492. It was Ferdinand and Isabella of Castile who now ruled all of Spain. Before this, there were a number of Christian countries in what is now called Spain. Two of these countries, Castile and Aragon, came together when Ferdinand II of Aragon married the queen Isabella of Castile. It is very important to know that the King ruled as much as the Queen. In the same year, 1492, they sent Christopher Columbus to sail across the Atlantic Ocean. Columbus found the islands of the Caribbean Sea. When other European sailors explored more, they found out that there were two continents there - North America and South America. Spain sent many soldiers and businessmen to North and South America, and they took over very large parts of those two continents. This empire did not make Spain a rich country, for most of the money had to be spent in wars. Many of these wars were fought against other European countries who were trying to take over parts of the Americas. Meanwhile, at home, the Muslim manuscripts had been either burnt or taken to other countries. Jews had also been expelled from Spain. Some Jews remained but they had to become Christians. Among the few things kept and respected in Spain were in music: harmony and stringed instruments. The buildings that had been built by the Moors were kept, and many Muslim religious buildings (mosques) were turned into churches. Some Jewish religious buildings were also turned into churches. Many Arab words became part of the Spanish Language. 16th and 17 century. The Emperor of Austria, Charles the V became the King of Spain and Portugal too. So the empire became bigger than ever. However it was not a single countries but many independent countries with a single King. At first many Spaniards did not want that Charles the V were their king, so they fought against him. But the King won. Charles the V involved Spain in many wars to defend his Austrian empire. 18th century. In the 18th century some of the parts of that large empire became their own countries, or were taken over by new countries, such as the United States of America. 19th century. Spain (and other European countries) was invaded by Napoleon of France. Spain, Britain and Europe sent its troops to defend the peninsula, since it was so weak. 20th century. There was not much peace in Spain during the first part of the 20th century. Some Spaniards tried to set up a government chosen by the people (a democracy), and they made the King of Spain leave the country. However, in 1936, two different groups of Spaniards went to war over whether the government should be a democracy (although those on the side of the Republic were largely socialist or anarchist), or take orders from one person. In 1939, those who wanted democracy were defeated, and a nationalist dictator named Francisco Franco took over the government. Franco died in 1975. He had decided that Spain should have a monarchy again, and he chose Juan Carlos, the grandson of the king who had been forced to leave the country, to be king. But the king did not rule as a dictator; instead, he chose to set up a democracy. Now Spain is a modern democratic country, and does business with many countries around the world. It is the eighth economy of the world and is an important part of the European Union. Geography of Spain. The middle of Spain is a high, dry, flat land called La Meseta. In La Meseta it can be very hot in the summer and cold or very cold in the winter. Spain also has many mountain ranges. On the south coast, the weather is warm and "temperate" - temperate weather is neither very hot nor very cold. Since Spain is in the south of Europe, it is very sunny. Many people from Northern Europe take their vacations in Spain, enjoying its beaches and cities.  
Saint Lawrence River	The Saint Lawrence River is a big river in eastern North America. It flows between the Canadian province of Ontario and the American state of New York, and through the Canadian province of Quebec. The river drains water from the Great Lakes into the Atlantic Ocean. It is more than three thousand kilometres long. The river meets the Atlantic Ocean in a big "estuary" or bay, the biggest in the world; this is called the Gulf of Saint Lawrence. The Canadian cities of Kingston, Montreal, and Quebec City are on this river. It is very important because ships can sail up the river and through the Great Lakes right into the middle of North America. It is the third largest river in Canada.  
Seville	Seville (spelled "Sevilla" in Spanish) is a big city in the South of Spain, in Europe. There is a big river called the Guadalquivir River which goes through Seville. The city of Seville is the capital of the Spanish region called Andalusia and of the province of Sevilla. The people who live in the city are called "Sevillanos" and there are almost a million of them: 700,000. History. A very old story says that the city was started by the famous hero of Greece, named Hercules. The Romans when they came to Spain gave it the Latin name of Hispalis. Over time this changed to be spelled in English as "Seville". The Arab Moors took the city when they invaded the country, and you can still see a lot of the buildings they built during their 800 year stay in Spain (711-1492). In the year 1992 Seville was the place for the Expo 92. There is a beautiful bridge across the Guadalquivir River called "Puente del Alamillo". It was thought up by Santiago Calatrava a famous building expert. Seville is famous for its hot summer weather. Sports. Seville is the home town of two soccer teams, Sevilla FC (often called simply "El Sevilla") and Real Betis Balompié (often called "El Betis"). Other websites. Seville is also the name of a place in the State of Ohio.  
Salami	Salami is a sausage that first came from Italy. The name comes from the Italian "salare" meaning to make something salty. The original salami was made from a mix of chopped pork and salt which was dried using air in a casing. People who are muslim are not allowed to eat this type of salami becaus it is pork. Now there are many types of salamis made in some countries. Nearly all are seasoned with a combination of herbs and spices in addition to salt. Salamis are now sometimes smoked or cooked before air drying. Some kinds are made of beef while others mix beef and pork. Most, if not all Italian salamis have garlic in them, but few German kinds do. Some, like a few salamis from Spain, include paprika or chili. The difference between some types is in how coarse or fine the meat is chopped. Some "light" salami might add turkey or chicken to reduce both fat and calories. Many salamis are named after the city or region where they come from. Some examples are Arles, Genoese, Hungarian, and Milano salamis.  
Special English	Special English is a simple form of the English language used by a public radio station called Voice of America, run by United States government in daily Special English programs. Its news and feature programs are read more slowly than usual, using a limited number of English words and simple grammar. For those whose mother language is not English, it is much easier to understand contents of programs, because it sounds clearer and simpler, and shorter sentences are used in articles. It can also help someone whose English is weak to improve his or her English. In some countries, for example China, Special English is more and more popular among people learning English. Special English was first used on October 19, 1959.  
Sausage	Sausage is a food made of ground-up or chopped-up meat. It often has spices in it and is covered in a casing. Other meats, like the hot dog, pepperoni, bologna, and salami also are covered with a casing like a sausage's. Sausages often have meat from the animal's head, lips, cheeks, and other parts. Some have blood in them. Irish and English sausages normally have a lot of "rusk," or bread crumbs, and they are less meaty than sausages from other countries. Sausages may be used as a meal, in a sandwich, or in other foods like stews. Many countries and regions have special kinds of sausage. Sausages are some of the oldest foods.  
Slang	Slang is jargon used by the general public. Usually each generation or social group has its own slang - for example, older people can have trouble understanding the slang of younger people. On the other hand, younger people often understand, but find silly or old-fashioned, the slang of older people. Over time, language tends to get more complex, since new words enter much faster than old words leave. Over time, slang almost always becomes part of the language, and approved for use by all. It has also happened that some words used in Anglo-Saxon for bodily functions became thought of as profanity or rude after they were replaced by Latinate words like "urinate", "defecate" and "copulate" - which polite people were supposed to use after the Norman invasion of England in 1066. This was in part a way of making poor people (who spoke Anglo-Saxon) all appear to be rude, while more powerful people (who spoke Norman) appeared to be polite - one way that etiquette can develop, and reinforce power structure. This is only one example from history of how racism can be a reason for defining one group's language as 'slang' and another as 'correct'. Wanting to have rules of grammar that do not change and the same vocabulary used by everyone for better communication is another reason that is often given for defining one group's language as correct. An "idiom" can be slang, but it can also be a metaphor that becomes part of the culture.  
Social contract	A social contract is an agreement to follow certain rules. These rules are usually called laws. Laws help to make sure people have rights and that their rights are taken care of. One kind of social contract is a constitution. A constitution sets limits on the powers of government leaders, police, and other people who have authority.  
Social capital	Social capital is the willingness of people to help each other. It often replaces money which people would use to buy the same help. Society works best when there is plenty of social capital. The less social capital there is, the more social problems there usually are. If there is no social capital, war and revolution often results. People who have no money and cannot get help from society may have to agree to do things they do not want to do, or force others to do things they do not want to. Organized crime grows in this way, and so do forced labour and slavery. Most ways of measuring social capital have to do with trust - people who trust that favours and help will be available when they need it will favour and help others more. Those who are seen as trying to get a free ride will get much less help. A social climber tries to earn social capital by making friends with those who have it but without actually helping. Some call this kind of person a social parasite. They are very hard to detect, unlike people who cheat or commit fraud. When there are too many of these kinds of people, especially when they are politicians, people begin to mistrust their government. Rather than work with a political party to change law, they may start to look for direct revenge for things. Social capital is a lot like real capital. The more money a person or a society has, the easier it is to do things and the better off people are. The less money, the more difficult things become and the worse people feel.  
Site	A site is a real fixed physical location where something will or has happened or a place where something is. Uses in buildings. It is used very often in building trades to mean the place where a building will go up. Uses in gravesites. A gravesite is a place where a person will be buried after they die. Uses in work. The words onsite and offsite refer to work that must take place on the site, or which can take place somewhere else. For instance, a prefabricated building can be "built offsite" and then "moved onsite". Use on the internet. "Site" is also a common abbreviation in net jargon for "website". In this case no real physical location exists other than the place where the computers are, and one "goes to the site" simply by using a web browser to "go to" that URL. This is a conceptual metaphor. It can be confusing. Someone who uses it is also likely using other jargon.  
Subtraction	Subtraction is the arithmetic operation for finding the difference between two numbers. The special names of the numbers in a subtraction expression are, minuend − subtrahend = difference. The expression 7 − 4 = 3 can be spoken as "seven minus four equals three," "seven take away four leaves three," or "four from seven leaves three." If the minuend is less than the subtrahend, the difference will be a negative number. For example, 17 − 25 = (−8). We can say this as, "Seventeen minus twenty-five equals negative eight." This is how cash registers determine the change you receive when you pay with more money than your purchase costs.  
String theory	String theory is a scientific theory that uses complicated mathematics and physics to try to explain how the universe works. String theory is an attempt to explain these four forces using one single theory (or unified field theory). This may also be a theory that can bring together other physics theories all at once. If the string theory is true, it is one of the few theories that could explain why there is gravity. It explains gravity through quantum mechanics. With traditional physics theories, this was not possible. Main idea. Usually, scientists think of matter as being made of very, very small particles. These particles are so small (we are talking on a scale much smaller than an atom) we cannot observe them to see their shape. Currently, all mathematical formulas assume they are point-like and therefore have no size at all. The main idea behind string theory is that this assumption is wrong, and that these small particles are instead shaped as tiny strings. The theory imagines that these strings are not precise particles (unlike things that are seen and counted). The strings are very small (10-35 m long), yet they seem to behave like regular particles. It explains how other particles and forces behave. Because they are so small their actual shape doesn't matter much when we are doing calculations of bigger objects. Status. It is used as a possible way of explaining how some things work; it is very hard for scientists to prove everything, or answer every question that they can imagine by using just one theory on its own. String Theory is slightly different from most other theories because it could help scientists get closer to explaining everything that they can think of, so many scientists are excited by the ideas that String Theory has to offer. There are two mathematical models that predict the same physical observations of the whole universe. One is "as large as we think the universe is", about the 74 billion light years circumference predicted in Weeks' model. The other is much smaller than the Planck Length. Both mathematics are just as good to explain what we can see. The Superstring theory is based on 10 or 11 dimensions. The Bosonic string theory has 26 dimensions. Gravity is the only real force in the theory. It says only four of the ten dimensions can be observed by us, and that the others hint at the other forces that are observed. It does not say that other physics theories are not true, or wrong. String theory has led to advances in the mathematics of folding, knots and Calabi-Yau spaces. Problems. There are many different variations of string theory, and none of them is fully accurate. Often, many of them use only approximations. String theory proponents say this is because the theory is not finished yet. Another problem is that the mathematical laws of string theory also gives lots of different possible solutions. Scientists that believe in string theory work around this problem by picking only the results that match our observations and saying that later we will find why the other ones are not good. Opponents argue that we can't ever know if a theory is true as a whole if we only take the bits that work. This also makes the theory of little use until the issue is solved, because mathematical laws are usually used to predict what will happen in a situation - but string theory cannot yet answer that question, because it needs to be tried first and then scientists can pick the answer that work. Yet another problem is that it says our universe is made of at least 10 dimensions, while we only see four (width, height, depth, time). String theory proponents say some dimensions may not be visible to us, but others doubt there can be 6 or more hidden dimensions, or that we will never be able to access them even if they do exist. String theory does not make predictions that can actually be tested by scientists today or in the near future. Some people say this makes the theory unscientific.  
Scientist	A scientist is a person who works in science. A scientist tries to understand how our world, or other things work. About. Scientists work for governments, companies, schools and research institutes. Some scientists teach at universities and other places and train people to become scientists. Types of scientists. Scientists can work in different areas of science.  
Soapbox	A soapbox is a temporary platform used to give a speech. During the 19th century, soap was transported in wooden boxes. When a person had new or unusual ideas, and wanted to talk to a crowd about them, sometimes he or she would stand on an empty soapbox so that everyone could see and hear the talk well. People sometimes use the word "soapbox" to mean a place to say new or unusual things.  
Supernatural	The word supernatural is used for things that some people believe are real, but that are not part of nature. Because we cannot prove whether these things are real, people often disagree about these things. Scientists say that we should talk about things without talking about the supernatural, because we cannot prove that supernatural things are real. Other people say that although we cannot prove supernatural things in a scientific way, they are real. Many ideas like religion, magic, miracles, spirits, ghosts, angels, devils, gods, and God are supernatural. Fiction. In comic books, the superhero is a person with supernatural abilities and tries to hide them. In books, a character (Usually Fantasy, or Science fiction) has some sort of supernatural powers. For example: A witch who can cast magic.  
Spirit	In many religions, a spirit is considered to be the part of a being that is not the body. Other words with the same meanings are soul and ghost. When a body is alive, it has a spirit in it. Death is when the spirit separates from the body. Some people think that without their bodies, spirits can still exist on the Earth and in places like Heaven or Hell. Some believe that spirits can talk with people, or change things in the world. Many religions forbid communicating with such spirits in any way, but a few include this as part of their practice. Another use of "spirit" means the main purpose or meaning of a sentence or document. For example, the "spirit of a law" is the meaning of the law which the creator wanted. This phrase is often used when the words and sentences of a law could mean more than one thing, but a judge must decide what meaning is correct.  
Seed	A seed is the part of a plant that the plant makes that can grow into a new plant, by planting near another plant. There are many different kinds of seeds. Some plants make a lot of seeds, some make only a few. Seeds are often hard and very small, but some are larger. The coconut is a seed which can be as big as a child's head. A seed needs water, air and warmth but not sunlight to germinate (become a seedling). Because most kinds of seeds carry the food that helps the new plant begin to grow, many kinds of seeds are good food for animals and people. Seeds are often inside fruits. The many kinds of grain that people grow, such as rice, wheat, and maize, are all seeds. The seed also has a seed coat. The seed coat is an outer covering that protects the seed.  
Sail	A sail is a large piece of cloth on the top of some boats. The wind goes around the sail and makes the boat move through the water. The piece that the sail is attached to is called a mast. Some boats have many sails, and some have only one. Usually, small boats have only one sail, and bigger boats have more. Boats with sails are called sailing boats. There are many different names for different kinds of sailing boats with different kinds of sails. Before people made boats with engines that used coal or oil, sailing boats were an important way to travel across oceans. Now they are not so important for transport, but they are still used for recreation and competition.  
Skin	Skin is the outside covering of animals. The skin of different kinds of animals is very different. Many kinds of animals have hair or fur on their skin. Birds have feathers on their skin. Most fish, and reptiles like snakes and lizards, have scales on their skin. The skin of human beings (people) usually has very small hairs on it that are hard to see. Some people have more hair, or hair that is easier to see, and some have less. People have hair that is longer and easier to see on some parts of their bodies, such as the tops of their heads and men's beards. The skin of animals can be made into leather. Leather is sometimes used to make shoes, bags, and balls. Other things can be said to have "skins". People often say that fruits, such as apples and bananas, and vegetables, such as potatoes, have "skins".  
Search engine	A Search engine is a web site on the World Wide Web (www) of the Internet that helps us to quickly and easily find the web pages we want. One can put in words on the subject that one is interested in, and the search engine will find pages that have those words in them. Some examples of business search engines are  
Shabbat	The Shabbat day(also known sa the Sabbath Day) has its origins in Creation, when God made the Earth for six days, and stopped work on the seventh day. The Shabbat day starts Friday evening when the sun goes down, until Saturday night. According to Kabbalah, the Shabbat day is meant to be like a perfect world in which everyone knows about God and loves Him, a kind of world that has not been since the Garden of Eden, and will not be again until the Messiah comes. On Shabbat, work is not allowed according to the Ten Commandments. It is a day of rest and of Torah study. Most machines may not be used, and no work done. Not even a light switch can be used, according to Orthodox Judaism, but not all Jewish groups do this. The Sabbath in Christianity comes from the Jewish Shabbat, but most Christians have it on Sunday, not Saturday. They also rest, but not the same way as Jews. The exact way depends on denomination. Islam also has a Day of Rest, which also comes from Shabbat. In Islam it is on Friday, and is called "Yawm al-Jamme'a," the "Day of Gathering" (For prayer).  
Statistics	Statistics is a way to collect and analyze measurements. Statistics is used to describe data and to test theories about the world and how it works. Statistics is based on probability — the "laws of chance". Collecting data. Before the world can be described with statistics, data has to be collected. This data has the form of measurements. After the data is collected, there will be a series of numbers which describe that observation, or measurement. A typical example might be to find out how popular a certain TV program is, how many people watch it. Another example might be to find out, whether a certain drug helps in curing a specific disease. Methods. Most commonly statistical data is by doing surveys, or experiments. Surveys are done by using a small number individuals, and collecting data from them. They may be asked questions, if there are people. If they are not, some measurements might be taken from them. The choice of which individuals to take for a survey or data collection is very important, as it directly influences the statistics. When the statistics are done, it can no longer be determined which individuals are taken. Suppose, the water quality of a lake needs to be measured. It is a big lake. If samples are taken next to the waste drain, results of this will be totally different, than if the samples are taken in a remote, nearly inaccessible spot of the lake, Errors. We can avoid chance errors by taking a larger sample, and we can avoid some bias by choosing randomly. However, sometimes large random samples are hard to take. And bias can happen if some people refuse to answer our questions, or if they know they are getting a fake treatment. These problems can be hard to fix. Finding the middle of the data. The middle of the data is often called an average. The average tells us about a typical individual in the population. There are three kinds of average that are often used: the mean, the median and the mode. Name | A B C D E F G H I J score| 23 26 49 49 57 64 66 78 82 92 Mean. The formula for the mean is formula_1 Where formula_2 are the data and formula_3 is the population size. (see Sigma Notation). In our example formula_4 The problem with the mean is that it does no longer tell about how the values are distributed. It is easy to influence the mean by extreme values. In statistics, extreme values might be errors of measurement, Median. The median is the middle item of the data. To find the median we sort the data from the smallest number to the largest number and then choose the number in the middle. If there are an even number of data we choose the two middle ones and calculate their mean. In our example there are 10 items of data, the two middle ones are "E" and "F", so the median is (57+64)/2 = 60.5. Mode. The mode is the most frequent item of data. For example the most common letter in English is the letter "e". We would say that "e" is the mode of the distribution of the letters. Other descriptive statistics. We use it to find out that some percent, percentile, number, or fraction of people or things in a group do something or fit in a certain category. For example, social scientists used statistics to find out that 49% of people in the world are males. "See also: Normal distribution"  
Speed	Speed is the distance that an object moves in a certain amount of time. Speed is a measure of how fast something is moving. Finding speed. To find speed formula_1, formula_2formula_3 where formula_4 is the distance and formula_5 is the time that has gone by. Units of measurement for speed. There are many units of measurement for speed. For example, an object's speed can be measured in Changing speed. When an object changing speed, it gets faster or slower. When the object becomes faster, and the speed increases, it is called acceleration. When the object gets slower, and the speed decreases, it is called deceleration, or negative acceleration.  
Server log	A server log records what is happening on a server at any time. For example, an HTTP server runs a web site.  
Server	In net jargon (words people use about the Internet) a server is a computer that serves many things from user, or client machines. Usually a server will only do a few things. Every type of thing a server does is called a service. Services are used by other computers that are called clients. The relationship between the client and the server is called a client-server relationship. For example, Wikipedia has a web server which has a service for sending web pages over the Internet. Your client computer talks to the Wikipedia's web page service to get web pages for you. So that servers and clients can talk to each other, they need to be connected to a network, and they need to use the same protocol. In networks, a protocol is a set way for machines to talk to other machines - like a language. For example, the Wikipedia server runs the HTTP (Hyper-text transfer protocol) to send web sites to your computer, and your computer uses the HTTP Protocol to ask Wikipedia for pages. Usually, servers are specially made to be more powerful and reliable, and they are more expensive than normal computers. Sometimes, servers can be clustered, which means that lots of servers work together to do one service. In a peer to peer system, every computer is both a client and a server to each other. This is commonly implemented in file sharing and VOIP. However, this can aid in attempts at piracy.  
State	There are different forms of government a state can have,for example a republic, or a monarchy. Sometimes, states form their own countries, sometimes many states work together to form a country. Most states also have armed forces, civil service, law and police. Early states. The earliest states were just groups of power. A group of farms working together or a group of factories working together could be 'states' since people can control them and protect them. More organized states could be the monarchies such as early Egypt under the Pharaoh. Following this were larger more military-based states such as the Roman Empire. The most important early states, however, were the Ancient Greek states which had freedom, writing and a democracy. From military to modern state. When the military-based state, the Roman Empire, fell, lots of little states were made and each was also military-based and controlled by a king. These states didn't often work together and war raged. However, once people within the state itself started fighting (what's called a Civil war), the kings had to make peace and start parliaments. Modern states. These states all tried to improve their politics and economy and became more and more like the states today. They formed proper boundaries for their lands and worked with power within the state itself more, such as the Church or the nobility. They made armies, tax systems and embassies all to help make them more powerful and stable. Different types of state. Types of state can be separated into two categories: democracy and dictatorship. However, just because a group of states are all democratic does not mean that they follow the same rules. Iran, Pakistan, France, Germany and the United States of America are all states. Each of them sees itself as a democracy. Each of them however has a different idea what "democracy" really means. Different states of the same 'category' can also function differently. For example, two democratic states may be quite different if one has a well-trained police or army while the other does not. Therefore, the word 'state' only tells us what type of government that state follows (democratic or dictatorship) and doesn't tell us about the country itself. Sub-categories of state. There are lots of sub-types of state branching off from democracy and dictatorship. The main ones are Pluralism, Marxism and Institutionalism. Pluralism. Pluralism has been very popular in the United States. It shows the state as a neutral place for settling arguments between other states. Pluralism tells us that all people are not equal, but still allows each group of people to tell the state what to do. This type of state is called a polyarchy. Also in a pluralist state, politics, the military and the economy are all united and work together. This means that all power in the state is 'diffused' across the people who live there. Marxism. Marxism was popular in Europe in the 1960s and 1970s. It was started by Karl Marx and Friedrich Engels. Marxism rejects the idea that a state is there for all the people living in it, and is definitely not a neutral place for settling arguments. The main job of a Marxist state is to protect capitalist-made profits and to help people make contracts to keep economy in the state fair. This is a good idea, however, the person who makes the money by using production or contracts has power over the people who don't make as much money as him. This means that the working class (the people who work in factories etc) have hardly any power but the people who own the factories have a lot of power. Basically, instead of giving power to everyone such as a polyarchy would do, only a small part of the people have power. Institutionalism. Both Marxism and Pluralism states have to react to the activities of groups of people in the state itself. Institutionalist states don't see themselves as 'instruments' to be controlled, they are more just geographical areas. In this area, the people just form groups themselves. An Institutionalist state can be made up of both Marxist and Pluralist people, both which have the power to control themselves and not influence the other parties of the state. Anarchism. Anarchism is when a group of people have complete freedom and don't believe in having a state at all. Anarchists are a lot like Marxists, since they don't believe that all people are equal, but they believe (opposite to Marxists) that a country can work without any organizations in it. Law and order are not necessary. Anarchists (such as Bakunin and Kropotkin in the 19th century), often want a form of Marxism but ignoring some of their rules. They want workers to manage themselves and simply get paid for what they do, rather than getting paid in wages.  
Stream	A stream is a natural flow of water moving across country between banks. It is smaller than a river.  
Solar System	The Solar System is the astronomical name for the Sun and the collection of planets, comets and other objects moving around it. The Earth moves around the Sun in an oval shaped, or "elliptical" orbit. The other planets in the Solar System also move around the Sun in elliptical orbits. The biggest objects that go around the Sun are called planets. It took people many years of looking carefully through telescopes to find them. No new big ones have been found for a long time, but more small objects are found every year. Most of the planets have moons that orbit around them. There are 166 of these moons in the solar system. planets of solar system. The planets are numbered (1) to (8) in order of distance from the sun and dwarf planets are letter "(A)" to "(E)". Structure. There are a few main parts of the Solar System. The terrestrial inner planets (Mercury, Venus, Earth and Mars) are the four closest planets to the sun and all have rocky surface. Between Mars and Jupiter is the asteroid belt and after that are the Gas Giants, (Jupiter, Saturn, Uranus and Neptune). They are all bigger than Earth and are mostly made up of gas. This group are the four biggest planets in the Solar System. After them is another, larger asteroid belt called the Kuiper belt. This contains many comets and asteroids as well as the dwarf planets Pluto, Haumea, Makemake, and Eris. After this scientists think there may be an even bigger asteroid belt called the Oort cloud although since it is hard to see they cant be sure. Pluto is no longer a planet. Pluto has been called a planet since it was discovered in 1930. In 2006, astronomers decided Pluto should no longer be called a planet because it is too small. Also, its orbit is very different from the other eight planets, as its orbit slants a little. It is now called a dwarf planet along with four others Ceres, Haumea, Eris and Order of discovery. Before the discovery of Uranus, ancient thoughts of the solar system consisted only of the Sun, the Moon, Mercury, Venus, Mars, Jupiter, and Saturn as much as ancient records go. Long ago, ancient scientists thought the Sun (and the whole solar system) orbited the Earth and that Venus was a star and not a planet.  
Saturn (planet)	orbit: 1,429,400,000 km (9.54 AU) from Sun Saturn is the sixth planet from the Sun. It is a gas giant, meaning it is mostly made of gas and does not have a solid surface. It is the second largest planet in the Solar System, the largest being Jupiter. The planet was named after the Roman god Saturnus, equivalent to the Greek god Cronos. Saturn's symbol is ♄ which is the symbol of Saturnus' sickle. Saturn has a very large system of rings made of ice with smaller amounts of rocks and dust. It has 59 moons, plus 3 others that are not confirmed yet as of 2007. The largest is Titan, which is larger than the planet Mercury. Physical features. Saturn is an oblate spheroid, meaning that it is flattened at the poles, and it swells out around its equator. The planet's equatorial diameter is 120,536 km (74,867 mi) whereas its polar diameter (i.e. from the north pole to the south pole) is 108,728 km (67,535 mi); a 9% difference. Its flattened shape is due to its very fast rotation, rotating once every 10.8 Earth hours. Saturn is the only planet in the Solar System that is less dense than water. Even though the planet's core is very dense, it has a gaseous atmosphere, so its average specific density of the planet is 0.69 g/cm³ (less than water). As a result, if Saturn were placed in a large pool of water, it would float on it. Atmosphere. The outer part of Saturn's atmosphere is made up of 96.7% hydrogen and 3% helium, 0.2% methane and 0.02% of ammonia. There are also very small amounts of acetylene, ethane and phosphine. Saturn's clouds show a banded pattern, similar to the cloud bands seen in Jupiter. Unlike Jupiter, Saturn's clouds are much fainter and the bands are wider at the equator. Saturn's lowest cloud layer is made up of water ice, and is about 10 km thick. The temperature here is quite low, at 250 K (-10°F, -23°C). However there are disagreements among scientists about this. The layer above, about 77 km thick, is made up of ammonium hydrosulfide ice (chemical symbol: NH4HS), and above that is a layer of ammonia ice clouds 80 km thick. The highest layer is made up of hydrogen and helium gases, which extends between 200 and 270 km above the water cloud tops. Auroras are also known to form in Saturn in the mesosphere. The temperature at Saturn's cloud tops is extremely low, at 98 K (-283°F, -175°C). The temperature in the inner layers are much higher than the outside layers because of the heat produced by Saturn's interior. Saturn's winds are some of the fastest in the Solar System, reaching 500 s (1,800 h, 1,118 mph), much faster than the fastest winds recorded on Earth. Saturn's atmosphere is also known to form oval shaped clouds, similar to the more clearer spots seen in Jupiter. These oval spots are cyclonic storms, identical to cyclones seen on Earth. In 1990, the Hubble Space Telescope detected an enormous white cloud near its equator. Storms like the 1990 storm were known as the "Great White Spot", unique Saturnian storms that only exist for a short time and only appear about every 30 earth years, around the time of the summer solstice in the Northern Hemisphere. Great White Spots were also found in 1876, 1903, 1933, and 1960. If this constant cycle continues, it is predicted that another storm will form in about 2020. The Voyager 1 spacecraft detected a hexagonal cloud pattern near Saturn's north pole at about 78°N. The Cassini-Huygens probe later confirmed it in 2006. Unlike the north pole, the south pole does not show any hexagonal cloud feature. Interestingly, the Cassini probe discovered a hurricane-like storm locked to the south pole that shows a very clear eyewall. This discovery is notable as no eyewalls have been observed in any other planet in the Solar System other than the Earth. Interior. Saturn's interior is similar to Jupiter's interior. It has a small rocky core at its centre and it is very hot; its temperature reaches 15,000 K (26,540 °F, 14,730 °C). It is so hot that it radiates about two and a half times more heat energy into space than the amount of energy Saturn receives from the Sun. The core is about the same size as the Earth's, but more dense. Above it is a thicker layer of metallic hydrogen, about 30,000 km (18,600 mi) deep. Above that layer is a region of liquid hydrogen and helium. The core is heavy, about 9 to 22 times more mass than the Earth's core. Magnetic field. Saturn has a natural magnetic field that is much weaker than Jupiter's. Like the Earth's, Saturn's field is a magnetic dipole. Saturn's field is unique in that it is perfectly symmetrical, unlike any other known planet (ie. the field is exactly in line with the planet's axis). Saturn generates radio waves, but they are too weak to be detected from Earth. The moon Titan orbits in the outer part of Saturn's magnetic field and gives out plasma to the field from the ionised particles in Titan's atmosphere. Rotation and orbit. Saturn's average distance from the Sun is over 1.4 billion km, about 9 times is distance from the Earth to the Sun. It takes 29.5 Earth years for Saturn to orbit around the Sun. This is known as Saturn's "orbital period". Saturn takes about 10.8 Earth hours to rotate around its axis. This is known as its "rotational period". It is known that its rotational period does not stay the same, therefore, Saturn does not rotate at a constant rate. Its rotational period is determined by the rotation speed of the radio waves released by the planet. The Cassini-Huygens spacecraft discovered that the radio emissions slowed down, thus the rotational period increased. It is unknown what caused the radio waves to slow down. History. Saturn is best known for its clearly visible planetary rings which makes it the most visually remarkable object in the solar system. The rings were first discovered by Galileo Galilei in 1610, using his telescope. He did not identify them as rings though, describing them as "ears". He stated that Saturn was actually three separate planets that almost touch one another. In 1612, when the rings were facing edge on with the Earth, the rings disappeared, then reappeared again in 1613, further confusing Galileo. In 1655, Christiaan Huygens was the first person who suggested that Saturn was surrounded by rings. He observed Saturn using a much more powerful telescope than Galilei's. He quoted that "It [Saturn] is surrounded by a thin, flat, ring, nowhere touching, inclined to the ecliptic." In 1675, Giovanni Domenico Cassini discovered that the planet's rings were in fact made of smaller ringlets with gaps. The largest ring gap was later named the Cassini Division. In 1859, James Clerk Maxwell showed that the rings cannot be solid, but are made of small particles, each orbiting Saturn on their own, otherwise, it would become unstable or break apart. James Keeler studied the rings using a spectroscope in 1895 which proved Maxwell's theory to be correct. Physical features. The rings range from 6,630 km to 120,700 km above the planet's equator. As proved by Maxwell, even though the rings appear to be solid and unbroken when viewed from above, the rings are made of small particles of rock and ice. The rings are on average up to one kilometre thick and are made of silica rock, iron oxide and ice particles. The smallest particles are only specks of dust while the largest are the size of a house. The largest gaps in the rings are the Cassini Division and the Encke Division, both are visible from the Earth. The Cassini Division is the largest, measuring 4,800 km (2,980 mi) wide. However, when the Voyager spacecrafts visited Saturn in 1980, they discovered that the rings are a complex structure, made out of thousands of thin gaps and ringlets. This structure is thought to arise from the gravitational force of some of Saturn's moons. The tiny moon Pan orbits inside Saturn's rings, creating a gap within the rings. Other ringlets maintain their structure due to the gravitational force of shepherd satellites, such as Prometheus and Pandora. Other gaps form due to the gravitational force of a large moon farther away. The moon Mimas is responsible for clearing away the Cassini gap. Recently, from data received by the Cassini spacecraft, the rings have their own atmosphere, free from the planet's atmosphere. The rings' atmosphere is made of oxygen gas, and it is produced when the Sun's ultraviolet light breaks up the water ice in the rings. Chemical reaction also occurs between the ultraviolet light and the water molecules, creating hydrogen gas. The oxygen and hydrogen atmospheres around the rings are very widely spaced. In addition to the oxygen and hydrogen gases, the rings have an atmosphere made of hydroxide, but it is also very sparse. This compound was detected from Earth by the Hubble Space Telescope. Spokes. The Voyager space probe discovered features shaped like rays, called "spokes". They are seen as dark when under sunlight, and appear light when against the unlit side. It is assumed that the spokes are made of microscopic dust particles that are raised above the ring plane. They rotate at the same time with the planet's magnetosphere, therefore, it is assumed that they have a connection with electromagnetism. However, the exact reason explaining why these spokes exist is still unknown. The Cassini probe detected the spokes too, 25 years later. They appear to be seasonal, disappearing during solstice and appearing again during equinox. Moons. Saturn has at least 60 moons, 48 of these have names. Many of the moons are very small: 33 of the 50 moons are less than 10 km in diameter and a further 13 moons are less than 50 km. Seven moons are large enough to be a near perfect sphere caused by their own gravitation. These moons are Titan, Rhea, Iapetus, Dione, Tethys, Enceladus and Mimas. Titan is the largest moon, larger than the planet Mercury, and it is the only moon in the Solar System to have a thick, dense atmosphere. Hyperion and Phoebe are the next largest moons, larger than 200 km in diameter. On Titan, the largest moon of Saturn, in December 2004 and January 2005, lots of nearby photos were taken, thanks to a man-made satellite called the Cassini-Huygens probe. One part of this satellite, known as the Huygens probe, eventually landed on Titan. Exploration. Saturn was first explored by the Pioneer 11 spacecraft on September, 1979. It flew as close as 20,000 km above the planet's cloud tops. It took photographs of the planet and a few of its moons, but were low in resolution. It discovered a new, thin ring called the F ring, and discovered that the dark ring gaps appear bright when viewed towards the Sun, indicating the gaps are not empty of material. The spacecraft meaured the temperature of the moon Titan. On November, 1980, Voyager 1 visited Saturn, and took higher resolution photographs of the planet, rings and moons. Unlike Pioneer 11, the images were good enough to focus on the surface features of the moons. Voyager 1 made a close encounter of Titan, and gained much information about its atmosphere. In August, 1981, Voyager 2 continued to study the planet. Images taken by the space probe indicated that changes were happening to the rings and atmosphere. The Voyager spacecrafts discovered a number of moons orbiting close to Saturn's rings, as well as discovering new ring gaps. On July 1, 2004, the Cassini-Huygens probe entered into orbit around Saturn. Before then, it made a close flyby of Phoebe, taking very high resolution images of its surface and gaining high amounts of data. On December 25, 2004, the Huygens probe separated from the Cassini probe before moving down towards Titan's surface and landed there on January 14, 2005. It landed on a dry surface, but it confirmed that large bodies of liquid exist on the moon. The Cassini probe continued to gain data of Titan and a number of the icy moons. It found evidence that the moon Enceladus had water erupting from its geysers. Cassini also proved in July, 2006 that Titan contained hydrocarbon lakes, located near its north pole. In March, 2007, it discovered a large hydrocarbon lake the size of the Caspian Sea near its north pole. Cassini observed the lightning occurring in Saturn since early 2005. The power of the lightning was measured to be 1000 times more powerful than lightning from the Earth. Astronomers believe that the lightning observed in Saturn is the strongest ever seen. References. Giuliano Sovramora "Knots Theory and its relation to strings". Harvard University Magazine, Section Astronomy, pages 23-45 volume XXV, May 2006.  
Slavery	Slavery (also called thralldom) is a system where people, called slaves, must work with little or no pay for their work. Slaves do not have rights and have no choice but to work. Slavery is a form of unfree labour and, in general, slaves are owned by someone else. If a slave is owned by someone else, he is called a chattel slave (pronounced. Chattel slaves are property, much like cattle. They are bought and sold in the same way. Slavery today. People are still being made slaves in some parts of the world. The ways in which it is done have changed. Today, slaves work because of things like a high debt (for example, slaves have to work to pay off a debt). For girls and women, forced prostitution is a type of slavery. Another form of slavery still happening today is forced child labor. Some children have to work in mines or in plantations, or they have to fight wars as child soldiers, for no pay. One study says that there are 27 million people (but others say there could be as many as 200 million) in slavery today, everywhere. Countries. There is obvious enslavement still taking place in parts of Africa, the Middle East, and South Asia. In Summer 2007, 570 people were found to be slaves for brick makers in China. Of those freed, 69 of them were children. The Chinese government made a force of 35,000 police check northern Chinese brick kilns for slaves, and sent lots of kiln supervisors and officials to prison and sentenced one kiln foreman to death for killing an enslaved worker. In Mauritania, it is estimated that up to 600,000 men, women and children, or 20% of the population, are enslaved, many of them used as bonded labour. Slavery in Mauritania was made illegal in August 2007. In Niger, slavery is also rife. A Nigerian study has found that more than 800,000 people are enslaved, almost 8% of the population. Child slavery has commonly been used when making cash crops and mining. According to the U.S. Department of State, more than 109,000 children were working on cocoa farms alone in Côte d'Ivoire (Ivory Coast) in 'the worst forms of child labour' in 2002. Slave policy. The prices for a slave are different in different places. They start at about US$40, in Mali, for young adult male workers. A young woman or a girl who does not have HIV may sell for as much as US$1,000 in Thailand. In 1850 in the United States, a slave could have been US$1,000 — about $25,800 today. The change in price is probably due to the fact of today's greater population, making human life cheaper. As a result of the lower price, the money advantages of present-day slavery are clear. In November 2006, the International Labour Organisation said that it would prosecute members of the junta that rules Myanmar (also called Burma) at the International Court of Justice for "Crimes against Humanity". This is because the military obliges some citizens to forced labour. The International Labour Organisation says that it thinks that about 800.000 people are forced to work this way. Stopping slavery. Slavery was a very normal thing more than 150 years ago, but now most people know it is wrong, and most countries do not allow it. In 1833 Britain stopped slavery, then in 1865 the United States did the same. They made it a crime to own slaves. In the United States, it stopped after the American Civil War. When the North won, all slaves were made free. When that happened, it was called "abolition of slavery". Slavery still exists today in some countries.  
Soul	Many philosophies and religions say that a soul is the part of a living human being which is supernatural and lives after death. It cannot be discovered by science, because it cannot be tested in any controlled way. Many different opinions exist as to what happens to personal experience after death. Most atheists say that there is no such thing as a soul, and that the body is the only part of a person. Popular culture. In popular culture, soul usually means deep feeling and commitment. It is in this sense that the word appears in the term soul music. However that music was also influenced by gospel music which was religious. One common idea about souls that is easy to express, is that a person "is" a soul, and "has" a body. The soul is the "I" in "I exist" that feels and lives life. What people call the mind could be "part" of the soul: one soul started this article, other souls have edited it, and another soul is reading it. This view, however, implies that the human body is a possession, and seems to devalue bodies that do not have souls as defined or understood by the speaker (some people say that animals, heretics, and people of another religion do not have souls). Like most uses of the verb to be, there is an ideology in these simple words. Characteristics. One distinction often made is between soul, which is distinct from other souls, and spirit which may be combined with that of other beings. The idea of the Holy Spirit in Christianity, for example, is a universal and shared spirit many souls are part of, and which is expressed on Earth in that faith by "the Church" meaning "the body of Christ" meaning "all bodies that follow Jesus." This could be more inclusive than the is/has view of souls and bodies. Reincarnation. Reincarnation is a belief that says that after the body dies, the soul will be born again in another body.  
Soap	Most kinds of soap are chemical compounds containing sulfates. When combined with water during bathing or washing, they help people and clothes get clean by reducing the ability of dirt and oil to hang onto skin or fabric. Soaps are made from animal fats or vegetable oils. Soap cleans very well in soft water. It is non-toxic to water life. It can be broken down by bacteria. However, soap is only slightly soluble in water, so it is seldom used in washing machines. It does not work well in hard water. It cannot be used in strongly acidic solutions. Man has used soap for at least 2000 years.  
Summary	A summary is a short version of something, for instance a movie or a book or an article. It tells you the main things in the movie or article or book in a short way and leaving out the details (the less important things). Many scientific journals publish a summary for every large article so people who do not have much time can read the main information quickly without spending too much time reading the article. Before one can deduce the summary of a comprehension, one should fully understand the comprehension. That is by reading the first time, second and preferably third. Use of windy statements and lengthy words in order to impress the examiner is not preferable. Just a short and small combination of words do the job. For example 1. George now knows that his friend Clooney can cheaply fall into any of his pranks. 2. Birds of the same altitude and traits seems to walk in the same conglomeration. 1.George can easily deceive his friend 2.Birds of the same feather flock together. Notice the use of "words" to explain many "words".George can easily for George now knows that his friend Clooney can cheaply fall. Birds of the same altitude and traits seems for Also one should know that summary does cosnumes many time dedicated to give out the best summary and not somthing you think it is simple. 1. Don't use windy statements or lengthy expressions 2. In Summary, avoid extreneous words 3. Try to fathom the comprehension passage very well. 4. Abide with rules e.g You may be asked to write your summary in one sentence or two. Breeching this instruction may result to loss of marks or none at all.  
Service economy	A service is a job or work done for someone else. Often, the person who gives the service will get something in return for the service. The person who gives the service can get money in return. The person who gives the service can get goods in return. The person who gives the service can get another service in return. This is a type of trade. All the service trades in a place form a service economy. The service economy can be in a region like a country or in a town or city.  
Sense	When a word has several meanings, one can refer to it as being used "in the sense of..." some context or other. In Simple English for instance we avoid using words in unusual senses. A valid seventh sense is the immune system's ability to detect invading virus and bacteria. Memory is sometimes listed as an eighth sense, although it seems not to detect things from outside, but reconstruct them from inside the brain, and sometimes from muscle memory. The obsolete term "sixth sense" is used to mean empathy or telepathy, and was in use before kinesthetics was understood. When someone does not like the ideology or logic used in an argument, they often say it makes no sense or is nonsense. A variation of this is to say that something does not make "economic sense". Usually these words signal a political dispute or some failure to define terms correctly. The term "common sense" is used to mean either wisdom or very stupid ideas shared by many "common" people. It has a long history of being used in politics, to mean almost anything.  
Synagogue	A synagogue is a place where Jews meet to worship and pray to God. In Hebrew, a synagogue is called "beit knesset", which means, a "house of gathering". The word "synagogue" comes from "sunagoge", which is a Greek word. In a synagogue, Jews do the Jewish services, which are prayers, sometimes with special actions. A synagogue will always have a big room for prayers. There might be some smaller rooms for studying. There will be some offices. There will also usually be a big room for special events. The front of a synagogue faces towards Jerusalem in Israel. In the front is the holiest part of the synagogue, the Ark. This is a closet which has the Torah scrolls inside. The Torah scrolls have the holy writings of Judaism on them. The Ark usually has a curtain in front of it. On top of the Ark is light which is always lit, called the “Eternal Lamp”. It is a symbol which means that God is always there. Every synagogue has a raised platform called the “Bimah”. The person who reads the Torah scroll stands there when he reads. The Bimah is either in the middle of the hall, or in front of the Ark. In some synagogues men and women sit in different places. Some synagogues even have a short wall so that they can not see each other. This is so that the people will think about the prayers better. Jews may call synagogues by different names. Many Orthodox and Conservative Jews living in English-speaking countries use the name "synagogue" or "shul." Jews who speak Spanish or Portuguese call synagogues "esnoga". Some Jews call the synagogue a temple.  
Scarcity	Scarcity in economics is used to describe the lack of various forms of capital. Scarcity can be used to describe an economic situation in economics, or it can be used to describe more general situations. In economics, scarcity is the result of people having "Unlimited Wants and Needs," or always wanting something new, and having "Limited Resources." Limited Resources means that there are never enough resources, or materials, to satisfy, or fulfill, the wants and needs that every person have. Scarcity is called the "basic economic problem," meaning that is always exists. Scarcity exists due to the effects of nature such as drought, floods, storms, pest infestation, fire and other things. Real scarcity can also exist by over use of non-renewable resources. Goods (things) and services are also scarce because there are only a limited number of things in the world and due to the limits of technology and our own priorities.  
Textual difficulty	What textual tests do is give people an idea about the density of their writing. Readability tests can not tell them how easily a reader can understand the information in the text.  
Theatre	Theatre (in British English and American English), or Theater (in American English only), has several meanings. In American English, the word "theater" can mean either a place where films are shown (this is called a "cinema' in British English) or a place where live stage plays are performed. In British English, "theatre" means a place where live plays are performed. Theatre or Theater can also mean the business of putting on plays. An actor might say "I am in the theatre business," or a writer might say "I write for the theatre," meaning that they write plays, rather than writing for movies or television shows. Ancient Greece. The first people to create plays were the Ancient Greeks, in about the year 500 A.D. They divided plays into two kinds: tragedy and comedy. This division is still used today. The most known Ancient Greek writers of plays are Aeschylus, Sophocles, Euripides and Aristophanes; their plays are still played today. These ancient Greek plays were performed outdoors in large amphitheatres for large crowds. These plays were very popular. There were contests among the playwrights (people who write plays are called playwrights) and the winner would win a prize of a goat, some money or maybe some wine. Middle Ages. In the Middle Ages, the Christian church began to use theatre as a way of telling the stories from the Bible to people who did not know how to read. They wrote Mystery Plays, where each part of the Bible story would be a play put on by a different group of people. They also wrote Miracle Plays which were plays about the lives of the saints. There were also Morality plays which taught the audiences how to live a good Christian life. Commedia dell' arte comic plays during the 1500s. In the 1500s, groups of actors who would tour around Italy performing comic plays to entertain townspeople. These plays were called Commedia dell'arte, and different stories would be created around the same group of characters. Often the spoken lines would be made up by the actors for each performance. Other kinds of plays called Neoclassical Dramas and Neoclassical Comedies were also popular in Italy and in France at this time. These plays were written to copy the style of the plays from Ancient Greece and Rome. At the end of the sixteenth century (the 1500s), the travelling actors began to perform in fixed theatre buildings. This was the period when William Shakespeare wrote. He lived from 1564 to 1616. At that time, in England, women were not allowed to perform, so male actors would play female characters. His theatre was in London, England. It was called The Globe. It was an outdoor theatre and plays were performed in the daytime for large audiences. His plays were very popular and are many are still performed today. Many scholars and theatre people believe Shakespeare was one of the best playwrights (a writer of plays). He wrote many kinds of plays: tragedies, comedies, romances and also history plays. All of his plays are written in beautiful, poetic language. Shakespeare often wrote plays set in Italy or in exotic, far-away places that would be interesting to London audiences. His plays are still popular today for many reasons. His characters (the people in his plays) are interesting and talk about interesting ideas. The stories he tells in his plays are often exciting, very funny (in the comedies), or very sad (in the tragedies) and make you want to know what happens to his characters. He also talks in his plays about things we still think about today, like love, sadness, hope, pride, hatred, jealousy, and foolishness. Plays from the 1700s. "This section currently needs your knowledge to help others on this subject. Thank You." Plays from the 1800s. "This section currently needs your knowledge to help others on this subject. Thank You." Plays from the 1900s. After World War II, playwrights in Europe and the United States began doing plays in a new style called "Theatre of the Absurd." After seeing the horrors of war, these playwrights felt that all their old values had been destroyed. Playwrights such as Samuel Beckett, Eugène Ionesco, Harold Pinter, and Jean Genet wrote plays that are considered to be "Theatre of the Absurd." The "Theatre of the Absurd" plays have some of the same ideas that are found in the philosophy (a way of thinking) called existentialism. Existentialism is very different from many other "philosophies". Most religions and philosopies say that human life has a meaning (or a purpose). The philosophy of existentialism is that human life does not have a meaning (or a purpose). When something has no meaning, it is "absurd". (absurd means means silly and meaningless.) The plays written in this style make people think about questions like "what is it like to be a person in the world?" and "what does it mean for a person to be free?" They are often filled with sad emotions, such as worry, fear, and thoughts about death. Plays from the 2000s. There are many other types of plays performed in the theatre today. Theatre Breaks. Theatre breaks are a form of short break, based around viewing a theatrical show. Theatre breaks tend to include a nights hotel accommodation included in the price. Some theatre breaks websites have been trading for over 20years.  
This	This is a demonstrative pronoun used to identify a noun. It describes something that is here or nearby ("This ball I am holding is red." or "This is my home."). A very easy way to tell if someone is using this the right way is if the object that they are talking about can be pointed to. For example, if someone says "this computer is mine," it should be possible to point to the computer. It does not matter if the computer (a noun) is in the room or in a picture.  
Test	A test is a way of checking something to see if it is true or if it works. If something can be tested, it is testable. People. People are tested to see what they have learned. This is often called an assessment or examination. In education, a test item is a question, or set of questions on a test. People and animals can also be tested for illnesses. For example, a blood test can be used to check for disease. Science. In science, tests are called experiments. These are done to check for a presence of a substance, or to check the quality of the thing being tested. Software. In software engineering, a test is used to determine a characteristic of a software system. Software is tested before it is released. "Alpha" testing is where software developers check the software for bugs. Software can also be checked for quality and usability. "Beta" testing is done by groups of users. Vehicles. Cars and other vehicles are tested using a crash test. The car is put under severe conditions to see what will make it fail. Other machines can also be crash tested. Crash test dummies stand in for humans. They 'sit' in the car seat to see if a human in the crash would have been injured or killed. Crash tests cost a lot of money. Other. The River Test is a chalk stream in the south of England. The river is used a lot for trout fishing. The river starts near Overton, in Hampshire and ends at the sea at the head of Southampton Water.  
Time horizon	A time horizon is a future point in time when something must be "done" (a "deadline") or will be "over" (a "time limit"). Either way, the matter will be closed when the time horizon is reached. It is very important to know at what time horizon something you are doing will be scored, evaluated, marked or paid for. Sports, for example football (soccer) and basketball, often have time limits. Baseball and others do not, which sometimes causes problems.  
Time limit	A time limit is a time horizon that is imposed on everyone at once. It may be used to try to achieve fairness in some system of ethics. For instance, if poor people and rich people are debating something, a time limit may be imposed so that the rich people cannot keep debating until the poor people have to go to work, and lose. Time limits are very important in accounting so that everyone can report their results (for tax and investment purposes) at the same time. This in turn creates deadlines for the accountant and those reporting. However, the deadline is imposed by an authority, whereas the time limit is imposed by a system. So there can be slack in a deadline, so that results do not have to be reported always very fast. For example, in the United States of America, the end of the calendar year on December 31 is the time limit for taxes, but the deadline for reporting is April 15. Sometimes the government allows more time, as it did for the families of those who were killed in the September 11, 2001 attacks.  
Taiwan	Taiwan (Traditional Chinese: 臺灣 or 台灣, Simplified Chinese: 台湾, Pinyin: Taiwan) is a democratic island country, officially known as the Republic of China (Taiwan) in East Asia. It is southeast of the communist People's Republic of China (PRC), south of Japan, and north of the Philippines. It includes the Pescadores islands. They are located nearby. Taiwan's old name was Formosa. It means "beautiful island" in Portuguese. The largest cities on Taiwan are the capital of Taipei and Kaohsiung. Most people living in Taiwan (sometimes called Taiwanese) are Han. There are also Taiwanese Aborigines who lived on Taiwan before the Han came to live there. Taiwan has three large Han groups. They are different in language and places where their ancestors came from: the Southern Fujianese (from China's Fujian Province), the Hakka (from China), and Mainlanders (from Mainland China after 1948). these so-called "Han" were really Taiwanese Aborigines who were forced to become like Chinese by the Qing Dynasty. The communist People's Republic of China (PRC) says that Taiwan belongs to them, and does not think the Republic of China (Taiwan) has a right to exist as a country. But most Taiwanese citizens think the ROC (Taiwan) does not belong to the People's Republic of China and that the ROC (Taiwan) is a free country. Still others think that Taiwan should change their name to the "Republic of Taiwan" instead of using the current name Republic of China (Taiwan). Status of Taiwan. There are two Chinese governments in the world: The People's Republic of China (PRC) and the Republic of China (ROC). PRC claims control over the island of Taiwan (which is also known as Taiwan province). Today, in reality, the PRC government controls mainland China, and the ROC government governs Taiwan. The PRC government has never occupied Taiwan. The ROC government occupied mainland China from 1911 to 1949, before losing control of mainland China to the communist PRC. Today, people who live in Taiwan have different ideas. Many Taiwanese think there is no freedom in China. Although some people on the island want to be united again with China, others want Taiwan to formally declare independence. But most of the people in Taiwan want to keep everything like it is now, at least until China becomes free. Today most countries of the world recognize the People's Republic of China as China. Even though Taiwan is not recognized by UN as a sovereign nation, most countries still have very close economic and cultural relationship with the island of Taiwan. The government of China have said that if the people of Taiwan formally votes to become the Republic of Taiwan, they will invade Taiwan. So, there is now a situation where both sides are not making any big changes. In March 2004, China's government passed a law that will allow China to invade Taiwan if the people of Taiwan vote to become the Republic of Taiwan. This law hurt the feelings of the people in Taiwan very much, especially since the government of mainland China does not rule Taiwan. It has caused even more people in Taiwan to not want to be re-united with mainland China.  
Trademark	A trademark (or trade mark) is a way for a business to help people to know the things the business makes. A trademark is a name, word, phrase, symbol, logo, design, or picture. It can only be used for the thing made by that business. For example, Coca-Cola and Coke are trademark names for a certain drink made by a certain business No other business can use these names. Other businesses can make a drink that is similar, but they have to use a different name for their drink. The Nike company makes sports shoes and clothes. The "swoosh" symbol that they use is a trademark, and no other company can use it unless they get permission. Trademarks can also be names or symbols for brands: whole families of products. The "swoosh" symbol and the name Coke are trademarks that represent the Nike and Coke brands. Trademark and law. Trademarks are protected by law. The business tells the government of its country that it wants to use a certain trademark for the thing it makes, and then the government says that no one else can use that trademark. This is "registering" the trademark. If someone uses the trademark in a wrong way, they might have to pay a fine. In the United States, the governing law for trademarks is the Lanham Act. When people write a word that is a trademark or show a picture or symbol that is a trademark, they should say that it is a trademark. They can write the word "Trademark", the abbreviation "TM", the symbol ™, or the letters "TM" inside a circle. When people write or show a trademark that a business has registered with their government, people should say it is a "registered trademark" or use the "®" symbol or the abbreviation "Reg." Businesses that do things for people instead of making things are service providers. They can get a service mark instead of a trademark for the things they do. When people write or show a service mark, they can use the service mark symbol: "℠".  
Terrestrial ecoregion	In ecology, a terrestrial ecoregion is a certain area of land which is different from the area near it. It has a distinct climate, geology, type of soil, water availability, and distinct living species (the animals and plants that live in the ecoregion). For example, one ecoregion can be a desert. It would have sand, very little water, very hot temperatures during the day and very cold at night. The plants could be just bushes, small trees, cactii. The animals could be scorpions, little mammals, spiders. Or for example, an ecoregion could be a tropical forest It would have warm temperatures all day, a lot of rainfall all year, a huge river crossing, and a very organic soil. The plants could be huge trees or ferns. The animals could be insects, birds, fish and apes. An ecoregion is likely to be about 100 km square. Marine ecoregions are similar, but are located in the oceans or fresh waters.  
Ten Commandments	According to the Old Testament, the Ten Commandments were rules for life given by God to the Jews at Mt. Sinai. Sometimes these rules are also called Decalogue (from Greek, can be translated as "ten statements"). The name decalogue first occurs in the Septuagint. The Jews received the commandments after they had left Egypt during the reign of Pharaoh Ramses. The commandments can be found in the Bible in the book of Exodus chapter 20 and in slightly different form in the book of Deuteronomy chapter 5. They are also implied in the Qur'an. Since there have been many translations, there may be variations in the way the commandments are written. Commandments in the Bible. The Bible does not number the commandments. Different religious groups have numbered them in different ways. The Jews, followed by Christian Protestants, end the first commandment with "You are to have no other gods but me." as above. Catholics and Lutherans end the first commandment at "I will have mercy through a thousand generations on those who have love for me and keep my laws." and separate in their last two commandments the desire for a man's wife from the desire for other things he owns. Interpretation. To "put anyone to death without cause", called murder, may mean all killing including execution and war, or exclude these. To "be false to the married relation", called adultery, is when a married person has sex with a person other than his or her spouse. The Bible does not say this includes unmarried people having sex with each other, although some people think this. Some have interpreted Exodus 22:16 to mean that if two unmarried people have sex, they should make a commitment to one another. To "give false witness" called lying, may include all lying, or only include lying in a court, called perjury. To "desire... your neighbour's house, or his wife, or his servant or his ox", implies that wives and servants were owned by a man in Moses' time, although this is not so today. Some people say that this means trying to get what the person wants, while others say it means even wanting it. In the New Testament, Jesus talked about who was guilty of breaking these commandments. He said that even if someone was just angry and rude to another person, they might be judged for murder, and if they just looked with desire or lust at a woman, they had committed adultery in their heart. Different numbering. The commandments passage in Exodus has more than ten imperative statements, there are 14 or 15 in all. While the Bible itself gives the count as "10", using the Hebrew phrase "ʻaseret had'varim"—translated as "the 10 words", "statements" or "things", this phrase does not appear in the passages usually presented as being "the Ten Commandments". Various religions divide the commandments differently. The table below shows those differences. What others say about them. In general, religions other than those mentioned (Judaism, Christianity,Islam) do not recognise the Ten Commandments as ethical standards. Many of them (Buddhism, Hinduism, Jainism, etc.) have similar laws or principles though. In the atheist Soviet Union the Moral Code of the Builder of Communism was a set of rules that resembled the Ten Commandments. Sabbath day. Most Christians believe that Sunday is a special day of worship and rest. It is there to remember the Resurrection of Jesus on the first day of the week on the Jewish calendar. They say that there is an analogy between the obligation of the Christian day of worship and the Sabbath-day ordinance. These two rules are not literally identical though. They say that this ordinance is no longer valid, because God has replaced his old creation by a new one (). For this reason, the obligation to keep the Sabbath is not the same for Christians as for Jews. They say there are examples in the New Testament, and in other writings surviving from the first few centuries. Some conservative Christians are "Sabbatarians". Most of these follow the Reformed traditions. Sabbatarians think the first day of the week or "Lord's Day" is the new Sabbath. This is because the 4th commandment has never been revoked and Sabbath-keeping is in any case a creation ordinance. Still others believe that the Sabbath remains as a day of rest on the Saturday, reserving Sunday as a day of worship. In reference to Acts 20:7, the disciples came together on the first day of the week (Sunday) to break bread and to hear the preaching of the apostle Paul. This is not the first occurrence of Christians assembling on a Sunday; Jesus appeared to the Christians on the "first day of the week" while they were in hiding. One can maintain this argument in that Jesus himself maintained the Sabbath, although not within the restrictions that were mandated by Jewish traditions; the Pharisees often tried Jesus by asking him if certain tasks were acceptable according to the Law (see: Luke 14:5). This would seem to indicate that while the Sabbath was still of importance to the Jews, Sunday was a separate day for worship and teaching from Scriptures. The Seventh-day Adventists and other churches disagree with some of these views. They argue that the custom of meeting for worship on Sunday originated in paganism, specifically Sol Invictus and Mithraism (in which sun-god worship took place on Sunday). This is therefore an explicit rejection of the commandment to keep the "seventh" day holy. Instead, they keep Saturday as the Sabbath as a memorial to God's work of creation (,) believing that none of the Ten Commandments can ever be destroyed (,). Seventh-day Sabbatarians claim that the seventh day Sabbath was kept by the majority of Christian groups until the 2nd and 3rd century, by most until the 4th and 5th century, and a few thereafter, but because of opposition to Judaism after the Jewish-Roman wars, the original custom was gradually replaced by Sunday as the day of worship. The history of these changes is certainly not altogether lost regardless of any belief in a suppression of the facts by a conspiracy of the pagans of the Roman Empire and the clergy of the Catholic Church. See Great Apostasy. Jews had come to be hated in the Roman Empire after the Jewish-Roman wars. This led to the criminalization of the Jewish Sabbath. Hatred of Jews is apparent in the Council of Laodicea (4th Century AD) where Canon 37–38 states: "It is not lawful to receive portions sent from the feasts of Jews or heretics, nor to feast together with them." and "It is not lawful to receive unleavened bread from the Jews, nor to be partakers of their impiety." In keeping with this rejection of the Jews, this Roman council also criminalized the Jewish Sabbath as can be seen in Canon 29 of the Council Laodicea: "Christians must not Judaize by resting on the Sabbath, but must work on that day, rather honoring the Lord's Day; and, if they can, resting then as Christians. But if any shall be found to be judaizers, let them be anathema (excommunicated) from Christ." Killing or murder. Various translations exist of the sixth commandment; the Hebrew words לא תרצח are translated either as "thou shalt not kill" or "thou shalt not murder". Older Protestant translations of the Bible, those based on the Vulgate and Roman Catholic translations usually translate it "Thou shalt not kill". Jewish and newer Protestant versions tend to use "You shall not murder". There is controversy as to which translation is more faithful, and both forms are quoted in support of ethical standpoints. The Vulgate (Latin) translation has "Non occides", i.e. "Thou shalt not kill". English translations using "kill" include the King James (Authorised) (1611) [although note Matthew "do no murder", following the Vulgate "non homicidium facies"], the American Standard (1901) and Revised Standard (American Protestant, 1952) Versions. Almost all Roman Catholic translations, including the Douay-Rheims Bible (1609/1752), the New American Bible (1970), the New Jerusalem Bible (1985) and the Christian Community Bible (1986), have "kill". Martin Luther (German, 1534) also uses "töten" (kill). Protestant translations using "murder" include the New International Version (American, 1978), New American Standard Bible (American, 1971), New English Bible (British Protestant, 1970), and the New King James (American, 1982), New Revised Standard (American, 1989) and English Standard (American Protestant, 2001) Versions. Jewish translations almost all use "murder", including the Jewish Publication Society of America Version (1917), the Judaica Press tanach (1963) and the Living Torah (1981). A Jewish exception is the Artscroll or "Stone Edition" tanach (1996). The many examples in the Old Testament of killing sanctioned by God, are quoted in defense of the view that "murder" is more accurate. Furthermore, the Hebrew word for "kill" is "הרג" - "harog", while the Hebrew word for "murder" is "רצח" - "retzach", which is found in the Ten Commandments "לא תרצח" - "lo tirtzach". Different interpretations of stealing. Many academic theologians (such as German Old Testament scholar A. Alt: "Das Verbot des Diebstahls im Dekalog" (1953)) suggest that commandment "you shall not steal" was originally intended against stealing people — against abductions and slavery. This would be the same as the Jewish interpretation of the statement as "you shall not kidnap" (e.g. as stated by Rashi). The problem with images of God. Christianity says that a very important element of the commandment not to make "any image, or any likeness of any thing that is in heaven above" is "and bow down and worship it". Another understanding on this comes from Roman Catholicism: they hold that one may build and use "likenesses", as long as the object is not worshipped. As a result, many Roman Catholic Churches and services feature images, some feature statues, and in some Orthodox services, icons are venerated. For most Roman Catholics, this practice is understood as fulfilling the observance of this commandment, as they understand these images are not being worshipped. Eastern Orthodoxy teaches that the incarnation of invisible God as a visible human, Jesus, makes it permissible and necessary to venerate icons. For Jews and Muslims veneration violates this commandment. Jews and Muslims read this commandment as prohibiting the use of idols and images in any way. Some Protestants will picture Jesus in his human form, while refusing to make any image of God or Jesus in Heaven. Very few Christians oppose the making of any images at all. Some groups have been critical of the use others make of images in worship. (See iconoclasm.) In particular, the Orthodox have criticized the Roman Catholic use of decorative statues, Roman Catholics have criticized the Orthodox veneration of icons, and some Protestant groups have criticized the use of stained-glass windows by many other denominations. Jehovah's Witnesses criticize the use of all of the above, as well as the use of the cross. Amish people forbid any sort of graven image, such as photos. The Ritual Decalogue. The term "Ten Commandments" without a modifier generally applies to the lists mentioned in Exodus 20 and Deuteronomy 5. However, there is a continuous story being told starting in Exodus 31:18 (where the stones are created), Exodus 32:19 (where the tablets are broken) and Exodus 34. This story lists a very different set of commandments. This version is sometimes called "Ritual Decalogue". Johann Wolfgang von Goethe and the people after him who followed the documentary hypothesis, note that Exodus 34:28 seems to refer to these Ten Commandments rather than the traditional ones. These people thought that the commandments in Exodus 20 and Deuteronomy 5 show a later set of Ten Commandments, and that the ten listed in Exodus 34 were the original Ten Commandments, now known as the "Ritual Decalogue" (as opposed to the better-known "Ethical Decalogue"). The differences between the two Decalogues highlight the development of sacred texts over a long time and from differing narrative traditions by incorporating two differing sets of Ten Commandments. Influence. The commandments have influenced Jewish ethics and law and, through Judaism and Christianity, Western ethics and law since the Roman Empire.  
Table	A table is a piece of furniture with a flat top supported by one or more legs. We put things on a table, often for a short time, for example food and knives and forks, etc. at a meal, cups for drinks, a book, a map, writing paper when writing, and things for hobbies. We also put things on tables for a longer time, for example a TV, computer or decorations (pretty things). Often we put a cloth on the table, flat on the top. There are traditional ways of putting the cloth, knives and forks and food on the table for meals. We can make some tables bigger, for example by pulling the top out. We can also fold some tables to transport them better, for example for camping. There are also small tables in trains and planes which we can fold or open. Some round tables come with a Lazy Susan. This is a rotating piece of wood in the center of the table. Traditionally, tables in Japan, "chabudai", are low, sometimes round tables, for tea and food. The name of the international organization Mensa is from the Latin word for table.  
Tree	A tree is a tall plant with a trunk and branches made of wood. It can live for many years. The four main parts of a tree are the roots, the trunk, the branches, and the leaves. The roots of a tree are under the ground. A single tree has many roots. The roots carry food and water from the ground through the trunk and branches to the leaves of the tree. The trunk is the main body of the tree. The trunk is covered with bark which protects it from damage. Branches grow from the trunk. They spread out so that the leaves can receive sunlight. The leaves of a tree are usually green, but they can come in many colors, shapes and sizes. The leaves take in sunlight and use water and food from the roots to make the tree grow, and to reproduce.  
Tragedy	A tragedy is a sad thing. In theatre, a tragedy is a play that ends sadly. A tragedy is usually about a person who has many good qualities, but has one bad quality (called a "tragic flaw") that causes trouble for him, and may cause him, or his family or friends, to be in trouble. Often in a tragedy, there is one thing that the hero does not want to happen and tries to prevent, but no matter what he does, it makes this thing more and more sure to happen. They originated in Ancient Greece where they were performed at religious festivals. The three most famous Greek tragedy writers were Aeschylus, Sophocles and Euripides.  
Taxonomy	Taxonomy is a science. It is about the classification of all things living. Although it is most commonly used in biology, it can be used in other types of classification too. Taxonomy is used with different ranks, the lowest is a species. There can also be sub-species. An organism is a species if two organisms of the same kind can mate. This name is the scientific classification of that species. The name is the same all over the world, so that when scientists from different places talk or write about the living thing, they can understand each other. When someone writes about this animal, the first time they write its name they will write "Felis silvestris catus". After the first time they write its name, they will only write the first letter of the Genus, so they will write "F. silvestris catus". This is known as binomial nomenclature, because it is a way to describe organisms using two names, the common name, and the scientific name. Kingdom --> Phylum --> Class --> Order --> Family --> Genus --> Species A mnemonic, or a saying to help a person remember something, for that is "King Phillip Came Over From Geneva Switzerland".  
Temple	A temple is a building where people go to practice their religion. In a temple people perform religious activities like prayers and worship of God. Thus, a temple is a general term for a house of worship. Christians usually call their religious buildings churches.  
Theft	Theft is a crime. It is when one person or group takes from another person, business, or state any object, money, service, or information without permission. A person who has been convicted of theft may be called a thief. However, the practice of engaging in theft is also called stealing. There are many different types of theft, such as burglary, armed robbery and shoplifting. Stealing is a basic crime, and is illegal almost everywhere.  
United Kingdom	The United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, usually shortened to the United Kingdom or UK, is a sovereign state in northwest Europe. It is made up of four countries, what used to be the two kingdoms of England and Scotland, the principality of Wales (all three on the island of Great Britain), and the province of Northern Ireland (on the island of Ireland). About 60 million people live in the UK. Most people in the UK speak English. There are several other native languages, other than English. They are Welsh in Wales, Cornish in Cornwall, Scottish (Gaelic) and Scots in Scotland, Irish in Northern Ireland, French in the Channel Islands and Angloromani. About 270 other languages are spoken. Major languages spoken in the United Kingdom other than English include Eastern Panjabi or Punjabi (471,000 - approximate number of speakers in the UK), Bengali (400,000), Urdu (400,000), Yue Chinese, mainly Cantonese (300,000), Greek (200,000), Southwestern Caribbean Creole English (170,000). The national anthem is called God Save the Queen History. Wales was taken over by England in the 13th century. In 1603, when Queen Elizabeth I of England died, her closest relative was King James VI of Scotland. He became king of England as well as king of Scotland, but the two countries stayed separate. In 1707, the Scottish and English Parliaments agreed the Treaty of Union, which joined the two countries into one country called "The Kingdom of Great Britain". By the year 1800, England had already had much influence over Ireland for over 600 years. In that year laws were passed in Great Britain and Ireland to merge the two states. This was against the wishes of many of the Irish people, as they had in previous centuries already suffered much English oppression. The new country was called the "United Kingdom of Great Britain and Ireland". In 1922 much of Ireland became independent as the Irish Free State (now called the Republic of Ireland) from the United Kingdom. However, six northern counties of Ireland continued to be part of the United Kingdom. The country was renamed "The United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland". Tony Blair was Prime Minister of the United Kingdom from 1997 to 2007. The Conservative party ruled for 18 years before his Labour party won elections. The current Prime Minister is Gordon Brown. Geography. The capital city of the United Kingdom is London, a large city on the River Thames in south-eastern England. Other large cities in the UK are Birmingham, Bristol, Manchester, Liverpool, Newcastle upon Tyne, Leeds, Sheffield, Cardiff, Edinburgh, Glasgow, Belfast, Southampton, Leicester, Coventry, Bradford and Nottingham. The UK is north-west off the coast of mainland Europe. Around the UK are the North Sea, the English Channel and the Atlantic Ocean. The UK is also in charge of a few smaller places around the world, most of them are islands, which are known as "overseas territories". The weather of the United Kingdom is warm summers, cool winters and lots of rain throughout the year. The reasons include its northerly latitude and the warm water from the Atlantic Ocean's Gulf Stream. Politics. The UK is a constitutional monarchy and a Hereditary monarchy. The people of the United Kingdom vote for a Member of Parliament to speak for them and to help make laws for them. Her Majesty Queen Elizabeth II is the queen of the UK and is the head of state (person in charge of the country). Even though she is the head of state, she does not choose what the United Kingdom should do about things like education, healthcare or other choices. The person who chooses for the people in the United Kingdom is the Prime Minister, who is in charge of the government. Today, the Prime Minister is Gordon Brown, who is the leader of the Labour party. Parliament, where laws are made, has three constituent parts: the House of Commons and the House of Lords and the Queen in Parliament. The House of Commons generally holds primacy. The Members of Parliament serve in the Commons, as has every Prime Minister since the Marquess of Salisbury resigned in 1902. The peers sitting in the House of Lords are not chosen by all of the people of the United Kingdom. They are people who are peers, because their parents were peers (ie. they are hereditary peers), they have been created peers or they are important officials in the established Church of England. The 92 hereditary peers are the only elected members of the House of Lords. There are two other hereditary peers in the House of Lords because they also have jobs to do on state occasions Scotland has its own devolved Parliament with power to make laws on things like education, health and scots law. Northern Ireland and Wales have their own devolved Assemblies which have some powers but less than the Scottish parliament. The UK Parliament remains sovereign and it could end the devolved administrations at any time. Economy. The UK is a developed country with sixth largest economy in the world. It was a major world power during the 19th and early 20th century. The economic cost of two world wars and the decline of the British Empire in the latter 20th century reduced its leading role in global affairs. The UK retains strong economic, cultural, military and political influence and is a nuclear power. It is a member state of the European Union. The UK holds a permanent seat on the United Nations Security Council, and is a member of the G8, NATO, World Trade Organization and the Commonwealth of Nations. Literature. William Shakespeare is perhaps the most famous English playwright. He wrote plays in the late 16th century including "Romeo and Juliet" and "Macbeth". In the 19th century, Jane Austen and Charles Dickens were popular novelists. Twentieth century writers include the science fiction novelist H. G. Wells and J. R. R. Tolkien. The children's fantasy "Harry Potter" series is written by J. K. Rowling. Arthur Conan Doyle from Scotland wrote the Sherlock Holmes detective novels. He was from Edinburgh. The poet Dylan Thomas has brought Welsh culture to international attention. Education. England, Northern Ireland, Scotland and Wales have separate systems of education. They have in common that education is required from ages five to sixteen. The majority of children attend state schools but a small proportion of children attend private schools. United Kingdom has the leading universities of Cambridge, Oxford, Durham University, Chatham and St Andrews.  
Universe	In astronomy, the universe is "everything out there". It contains the sun, all the planets including Earth, all of our galaxy, plus many other galaxies, and all of outer space. It is so huge that scientists measure its size in billions of light years - the distance light travels in a whole year. To travel in a spaceship, using today's knowledge, to even the nearest star would take centuries. In between the stars and galaxies, it is mostly empty and very cold. "Cosmology" is the science studying its origin, how it changes, and its future. Through history, different theories about it have been made, but the theory accepted by most scientists today is called the "Big Bang". It tells us the universe was once very dense, and then began expanding ("bang") a long time ago. Across history, many people have come up with ideas explaining how the universe came to be. Many origin myths, folktales that are passed from generation to generation that try to tell how the universe formed, have been created. Some have tried to explain it using gods, these stories are known as "religious creation myths". No one really knows the answer, and this has been the subject of many theories.  
Unprofitable	When something is unprofitable, it means that there is no profit being made. If a company makes a product that is not popular and not many people buy it, we can say that the product is unprofitable. A product can also be unprofitable if many people want to buy it, but only at a lower price than it can be made for.  
Unit of measurement	Measurement is a process to attach a numerical value to an observation. This is done to be able to compare or order two or more such observations. Units of Measurement provide standards to compare against. That way, the metre is the standard unit to measure length. Until it was redefined in 1982, it was defined as the distance between two markers on a certain rod. Now it is defined as the distance light travels in a certain time, in vacuum. Saying something has a length of 2 metres therefore means that its exactly twice as long as that rod used to define the metre, or that light takes twice the time defined for a metre to travel that distance. This also makes it easy to say that something that is 3 metres long is longer than something else, that is only 2 metres long. Today, most units of measure fall into one of two systems. The older, imperial system uses the foot as a mesure of length, the pound as a mesure for weight and the second as a measure for time. There are other units as well. Most of the time 12 or 16 of the smaller unit make the bigger unit. This is difficult to rememver, so there is another system that uses 10 of the smaller unit to make the bigger one. It is known as the "SI system" or "metric system. Is uses the metre for length, the kilogram for weight, and the second for time. Number and Unit of measure. The property of the thing being measured is given as a number of units of measure. The number only has sense when the unit of measurement is also given. For example, The Eiffel Tower in Paris, France is 300 meters tall. That is, the distance from the top to the bottom of the Eiffel Tower is 300 meters. The property of the Eiffel Tower being measured is a distance. The number measured is 300. This number does not make sense without the unit of measure. The unit of measure is the meter. Measurement Standards. Standards are used in measurements. That is, the unit of measurement used to measure a property is the same everywhere and does not change. This makes measurement easier and comparisons between measurements easier. Size of Units of Measurement. There are units of measurement of different sizes. There are small units of measurement to measure small things. There are big units of measurement to measure big things. Science, medicine and engineering use smaller units of measurement to measure small things with less error. It is easier to measure large things using larger units of measurement. Large measurements like the width of a galaxy and small measurements like the mass of an atom use special units of measurement. Systems of Units of Measurement. There are many different standards and units used all over the world. Metric System. The metric system is a system of measurement used in most of the world. It is also called the International System of Units, or SI. Imperial Units. Imperial units were used in countries that were part of the British Empire, however they can be different in different countries. For example the fluid ounce in Britain is smaller than the fluid ounce in the US, but the US gallon is smaller than the British gallon. The imperial units are now used mainly in the United States. While many countries have officially adopted SI, older system of units are still used. In the United States, the metric system has been legal for trade since 1866 but other measurements such as the gallon, inch, and the pound are still widely used. The ounces for weight and volume are different. Even when measuring water, the number of ounces of weight is not the same as the number of fluid ounces. Time. The unit of time is the second. The minute (60 seconds) and hour (60 minutes or 3600 seconds) are larger units. A day is usually said to be 24 hours, but is actually a small bit longer. This difference is corrected at the end of every year. A week (7 days) and month are also standard units. Money. A unit of measurement that applies to money is called a unit of account. This is normally a currency issued by a country. For instance, the United States use dollars. Each dollar is 100 cents. The United Kingdom uses pounds. Each pound is 100 pennies or pence. Other countries in Europe use the Euro which is 100 cent for the Euro they are not called "cents")  
U.S. customary units	U.S customary units are those used to measure things in the United States. Length or distance units include the inch, foot, yard and mile. Land units include square miles (2589998.47032 square meter) and acres (4046.8726 square meter). Common volume units are the teaspoon, tablespoon (3 teaspoons), fluid ounce (two tablespoons), cup (8 ounces), pint (2 cups, or 16 fluid ounces), quart (2 pints, or 32 fluid ounces), US gallon (16 cups, 128 fluid ounces, or 3.8 liters). A barrel is the unit to measure oil. Units of weight include the pound (453.6 grams), which contains 16 ounces. This should not be confused with the British pound which is a type of money. The different uses of the word "pound" can cause confusion. Some people have been trying to get rid of these units in the United States and replace them with the metric system since the 1820s. During and after World War II there was much infrastructure built using the old measures by both British and Americans. When this is gone it will be easier to get rid of these units.  
Uranus	Uranus is the seventh planet from the Sun in the Solar System. It is a gas giant. It is the third largest planet in the solar system. The planet is made of ice, gases and liquid metal. Its atmosphere contains hydrogen, helium and Methane. The temperature on Uranus is −197 degrees C (79 K). The planet is tilted on its axis so much that it is sideways. Uranus completes its turn around the Sun in 84 earth years. It completes its turn around itself in 17 hours and 14 minutes. This means there are 42,000 days in 1 uranian year. The distance between Uranus and Neptune is 1.6 billion km. Uranus was discovered in 1781. Uranus has 11 rings which are hard to see from earth. This planet can be seen with the naked eye under the perfect conditions. Some evidence suggests that this planet was catalogued as a star (34 Tauri) before its confirmed discovery. Uranus is named by Greek god Uranus, who was a god of sky. Moons. Uranus has 27 known natural satellites. The names for these satellites are chosen from characters from the works of Shakespeare and Alexander Pope. The five main moons are Miranda, Ariel, Umbriel, Titania and Oberon. Exploring. In 1986, NASA's "Voyager 2" visited Uranus. The visit is the only attempt to investigate the planet from a short distance.  
University	A university is a place like a school. Students learn at a university after high school (secondary school) in the United States. In the United Kingdom students learn at a university after secondary school or after college. Teachers at a university educate and do research in difficult subjects. Advanced students help to research - mostly for their diploma at the end. History. The universities were born in Europe during the Middle Ages. The first institution of this type was the University of Bologna that later became a model for similar centers of education. This term can often be used in other cultures to mean centers of higher education and higher thought, although their creation was often well before the Middle Ages. That earliest division caused the present divisions between literary and scientific fields. Organization. A university can include several campuses, or different places where classes are taught. In each campus there are several faculties and university schools (mainly for teaching), and also laboratories, departments and institutes of research. Many campuses also have housing for students in buildings called dormitories and structures like libraries, study rooms, and gymnasiums for students that live there. Each school offers many courses that students take to earn a degree. The person with the highest right to control and to command in a university is the rector, who governs the university with the help of the party of vice-rectors and of other organs: social council, governing body, etc.  
Value	The value of something is how much it is worth. Often the best way to find the value of something is use the price that it can be sold for. In mathematics, a value is a number.  
Volapük	Volapük is a constructed language created in 1880 by Johann Martin Schleyer. Schleyer was a Catholic priest from Germany. He felt that God had told him in a dream to make an international language. Volapük conventions took place in 1884, 1887, and 1889. The aim was to help people from different cultures speak to each other. Volapük became less popular after 1887 when Esperanto was published. Part of the reason was because Esperanto was easier to learn. There are only 25-30 Volapük speakers in the world today. The vocabulary of Volapük was mostly English, with some German and French. "Vol" and "pük" come from the English words "world" and "speech". The grammar is based on Indo-European languages and is more difficult than Esperanto. O Fat obas, kel binol in süls, paisaludomöz nem ola! Jenomöz vil olik, äs in sül, i su tal! Bodi obsik vädeliki govolös obes adelo! äs id obs aipardobs debeles obas. E no obis nindukolös in tendadi;  
Vocabulary	Vocabulary means a list of words. Someone's vocabulary is all the words that he or she knows. A 5 year old would probably know about 5000 words. An adult who has studied at university or college may know at least 20000 words in their language. The vocabulary of a language is always changing. New words are invented or words change their meaning. This means that dictionaries have to be updated. Words to do with computers such as "download" are new to the English language. The new word "bling" came from hip hop. Words like "gay" and "cool" have developed new meanings. If someone wanted to try to find out roughly how many words they knew, they could look at a page in a dictionary and count how many of those words they knew (counting things like “sing”, “sang”, “sung”, “singing” as one word). If they multiplied that by how many pages there were in the dictionary they could estimate how many words they knew. It is difficult to be exact. Some words may be understood but not known well enough to be used. Words that are used are part of a person's “active vocabulary”. Words that are only understood and not used are called “passive vocabulary”. Sometimes it may not be easy to decide if a word is understood. It may depend on the context. Knowing the “context” the word is being used in may make it possible to guess what it means. Without knowing what a "chough" is, the phrase “I saw a chough fly off from its nest” would indicate that it is a kind of bird. Someone who knows many words is said to have a "wide vocabulary". It is good to develop a wide vocabulary. Knowing lots of words will help with reading and listening to people. It will also help with writing and talking. The English language has a very large vocabulary. This is because of Britain’s history. Every time Britain was invaded, the new people brought new words. There are words from Celts, Anglo Saxons, Vikings, and French. There are also many words from Ancient Greek and Latin. Many of these new words were used as well as the old ones but they may have a different meaning. For example: "pork" came from the old French word "porc" (pig), but it means food that comes from a pig. In English, some long words may be hard to understand. This could be because they were taken from Latin or Greek. That makes it difficult to guess the meaning of the word. Using big words does not always make the meaning clear. This “Simple English” website tries to use a small vocabulary. There is a lot that can be said in very simple ways.  
Vacation	A vacation is some time, usually between a week and a month, when people do not have to go to work, but get paid. This allows them to travel out of town or do other things they wouldn't otherwise have time for. (It is comparable to holiday.)  
Vegetable oil	Vegetable oils are a kind of oil made from many different plants. They are used in food and for cooking. Some kinds of plant oils that people use are African oil palm, maize, olive, peanut, rapeseed, soy, and sunflower. Margarine is an artifical butter made from vegetable oil.  
Verb	A verb is a kind of word (see part of speech) that usually tells about an action or a state and is the main part of a sentence. Every sentence has a verb. In English, verbs are the only kind of word that changes to show past or present tense. Every language in the world has verbs, but they are not always used in the same ways. They also can have different properties in different languages. For example, in some other languages (e.g., Chinese & Indonesian) verbs do not change for past and present tense. This means the definition above only works well for English verbs. There are sixteen verbs used in Basic English. They are: "be, do, have, come, go, see, seem, give, take, keep, make, put, send, say, let, get." History of the word "verb". The word "verb" originally comes from "*were-", a Proto-Indo-European word meaning "a word". It comes to English through the Latin "verbum" and the Old French "verbe". Verb forms. In English and many other languages, verbs change their form. This is called inflection. Most English verbs have six inflected forms (see the table), but "be" has eight different forms. You should notice that some of the verb forms look the same. You can say they have the same shape. For example, the plain present and the plain form of "walk" have the same shape. The same is true for the past and the past participle. But these different forms can have different shapes in other verbs. For example, the plain present of "be" is usually "are" but the plain form is "be". Also, the past of "eat" is "ate", but the past participle is "eaten". When you look for a verb in the dictionary, it is usually the plain form that you look for. An English sentence must have at least one primary-form verb. Each main clause can only have one primary-form verb. Kinds of Verbs. English has two main kinds of verbs: normal verbs (called lexical verbs) and auxiliary verbs. The difference between them is mainly in where they can go in a sentence. Some verbs are in both groups, but there are very few auxiliary verbs in English. There are also two kinds of auxiliary verbs: modal verbs and non-modal verbs. The table below shows most of the English auxiliaries and a small number of other verbs. Auxiliary verbs also inflect for negation. Usually this is done by adding "n't". Tense, aspect, and mood. Many people think that all different ways of using verbs are all different tenses. This is not true. There are three main systems related to the verb: tense, aspect, and mood. Tense. Tense is mainly used to say when the verb happens: in the past, present, or future. Some languages have all three tenses, some have only two, and some have no tenses at all. English and Japanese for example have only two tenses: past and present. Chinese and Indonesian verbs do not show tense. Instead they use other words in the sentence to show when the verb happens. Aspect. Aspect usually shows us things like whether the action is finished or not, or if something happens regularly. English has two aspects: progressive and perfect. In English, aspect is usually shown by using participle verb forms. Aspect can combine with present or past tense. Progressive aspect. English uses the gerund-participle, usually together with the auxiliary "be" to show the progressive aspect. Perfect aspect. English uses the past participle, usually together with the auxiliary "have" to show the perfect aspect. The past perfect can be used to express an unrealized hope, wish, etc. After If, wish and would rather, the past perfect can be used to talk about past events that never happened. Mood. Finally, English mood is now usually shown by using modal verbs. In the past, English had a full mood system but that has almost completely disappeared. The subjunctive mood now uses the plain form. There is also a form of "be" that is used in conditionals to show that something is not true (e.g., If I were a bird, I would fly to California.) hi my names is magalis i need studing english in the computer online.. can I help you please. Sentence parts that go with verbs. Certain parts of a sentence naturally come before verbs or after them, but these are not always the same for all verbs. The main sentence parts are: subject, object, complement, and modifier. Subjects. Almost all English sentences have subjects, but sentences that are orders (called imperatives) usually don't have any subjects. A subject usually comes before a verb, but it can also come after auxiliary verbs. In the following examples, the subject is underlined and the primary verb is in bold. Objects. Many verbs can be followed by an object. These verbs are called transitive verbs. In fact, some verbs must have an object (e.g., "take"), but some verbs never take an object (e.g., "sleep"). Verbs that do not take an object are called intransitive verbs. Some verbs can even have two objects. They are called ditransitive verbs. In the following examples, the object is underlined and the primary verb is in bold. Complements. Some verbs can or must be followed by a complement. These verbs are called linking verbs or copula. In the following examples, the complement is underlined and the verb is in bold. Modifiers. Verbs can be modified by various modifiers, mainly adverbs. Note that verbs generally do not need modifiers; it's usually a choice. In the following examples, the adverb is underlined and the verb is in bold. Verbs also commonly take a variety of other modifiers including prepositions. Differences between verbs and other kinds of words. Sometimes a verb and another word can have the same shape. In these cases you can usually see the difference by looking at various properties of the words. Verbs vs. adjectives. Sometimes a verb and an adjective can have the same shape. Usually this happens with participles. For example, the present participle "interesting" and the adjective "interesting" look the same. Verbs are different from adjectives, though, because they cannot be modified by "very", "more", or "most". For example, you can say "That is very interesting," so you know interesting is an adjective here. But you can't say "My teacher is very interesting me in math" because in this sentence "interesting" is a verb. On the other hand, if you cannot change the 'be' verb to 'seem' or 'become', it is probably a verb. Verbs vs. nouns. The main differences between these verbs and nouns are: modifiers, number, and object/complement Modifiers. Verbs cannot generally be modified by adjectives and nouns cannot generally be modified by adverbs. So, in "Running regularly is good for you", "running" is a verb because it is modified by "regularly", an adverb. Number. Verbs cannot change for number, so if you can make the word plural, it is a noun, not a verb. For example, "this drawing is nice" can change to "these drawings are nice", so "drawing" is a noun. But "drawing trees is fun" cannot change to "drawings trees is fun", so it is a verb here. Object/complement. Many verbs can take objects or complements, but nouns can't. So, in "parking the car is hard", "parking" is a verb because it takes the object "the car". But, if you say, "there's no parking", parking may be a noun because it doesn't have an object. Verbs vs. prepositions. The main difference between verbs and prepositions is that verbs have a subject. Even if the subject is not written, you can understand what it is. Prepositions do not have a subject.  
Volume	The volume of an object describes how much physical space it takes up using the three dimensions of width, depth, and height. Use. The term volume can be used to describe real things like boxes, lakes, and buildings. All of these things have width, depth, and height. The formula for measuring volume is width×depth×height.  
Venus	"This article is about the planet Venus. For other uses see here" Venus is the second planet from the Sun in our Solar System. Venus is a "terrestrial planet" along with Mercury, Earth and Mars because it has a solid surface. Venus has been known by astronmers for thousands of years. The ancient romans named it in honour of their godess Venus. It is the brightest object in the night sky except for the Moon. It is sometimes called the "morning star" or the "evening star" as it is most bright just before morning and night. Venus is sometimes called the sister planet of Earth as they are quite similar in size and gravity. Apart from that the two planets are very different. Venus' atmosphere or air is made of thick sulphuric acid, and carbon dioxide. Sulphuric acid is a chemical that is very poisonous to humans. The thick atmosphere has made it hard for people to see the surface of the planet, and until the twenty-first century many people thought things might live on Venus. The pressure on Venus' surface is 92 times that of Earth. Venus has no moons. Physical Properties. Venus is a terrestrial planet so, like the Earth, it's surface is made of rock. Venus is much hotter than Earth. All the carbon dioxide in the atmposhere acts like a blanket around the planet, trapping heat from the Sun and causing a runaway greenhouse effect. This makes Venus the hottest planet in the Solar System with an estimated average temperature of 480 degrees. This is hot enough to melt lead. Geography. Venus' surface is about 80% smooth, rocky plains. Two higher areas called continents make up the north and south of the planet. The north is called "Ishtar Terra" and the south is called "Aphrodite Terra". They are named after the Babylonian and Greek godesses of love. Atmosphere. Venus' atmosphere is mostly carbon dioxide and nitrogen gas with clouds of sulphuric acid. Because the atmosphere is so thick or dense the pressure is very high. The pressure is 92 times the pressure on Earth, enough to crush many things. The average temperature is 480 degrees. It is impossible to look at the planet's surface from space as the thick cloud layer reflects 60% of the light that hits it. The only way scientists have been able to look is by using infrared and ultraviolet cameras.  
Vatican City	The Vatican City is the smallest country in the world (0.44 km²) and it is an enclave of Italy because it is surrounded by the city of Rome. It was created as country on February 11 1929, with the "Patti Lateranensi" (Lateran Agreement or Treaty), was signed by Benito Mussolini and Pope Pius XI. It is very small, but very important because it is the headquarters of the Roman Catholic Church. The Head of State is the Pope, now Benedict XVI, former cardinal Joseph Ratzinger, elected on April 19 2005, after Pope John Paul II's 26 years of Papacy. It is important also by the side of culture and art: its masterpieces are known by everybody in the world: St. Peter's Square, St. Peter's Basilica, the Sistine Chapel, the Vatican Museums and the Apostolic Palace, where the Pope lives. There are also hundreds of other sculptures and pictures. History. The Pope used to rule the Papal States. This used to cover all of Central Italy. Popes had always tried to stop Italy becoming one country because they might lose their control of the Papal States. In 1861 Italy was unified under the King of Savoy, but Rome and Latium remained unconquered. Only on September 20 1870 the Italian troops invaded and beat the Papal troops. Rome became capital of the new kingdom. The Pope said he was a prisoner of the Italian state and excommunicated all the people who helped the people who invaded his state. This stopped Catholics from taking part in public life. In 1929 Benito Mussolini decided to sign an agreement with the Holy See, called the Lateran Treaty, which created the Vatican State. Another treaty gave the Vatican money each year to compensate for the lost territories.  
Velocity	Velocity or speed is a measure of how fast something is moving. Physics. In physics, velocity is a "vector quantity", meaning that it not only indicates speed, but also the direction of movement. The current understanding of physics holds that "c," the speed of light through a vacuum (about 300 million "meters per second"), is the highest limit of velocity for anything that can be touched. In other words, this means nothing can go faster than the speed of light.  
Virtual community	A virtual community is a group of people who share an interest or set of views. A virtual community does not exist in any one place in the world. The people in it may come from many different places. Virtual communities communicate (talk) with each other using technology, such as the Internet, telephone calls, and the mail. The most common is the Internet.  
World War I	World War I was a war fought by a lot of countries, which is why it is called a "world" war. It started in 1914 and it ended in 1918. Other names it has been called are The Great War and The War to End all Wars. 135 countries took part in World War I, and more than 40 million deaths happened during this time. World War I was fought through most of the continent of Europe. The actual fighting that happened during the war was fought amongst many different fronts. The Western Front was where most of the fighting between Germany and the Allies happened. The system of trenches marked the Western Front as the Western Front. There was also a no man's land that broke into this area. Most of the fighting that happened in this area was trench warfare. The Eastern Front was fought in Central and Eastern Europe and was one of the main places where World War I took place. The fighting done on the Eastern Front was not trench warfare like it was on the Western Front, but instead depended on having front lines of soldiers ready to fight the enemy. The other fronts that had a lot of fighting includes the Middle Eastern Front and the Italian Front. The war was ended by the signing of many different treaties, the most important being the Treaty of Versailles. World War I was the first war where tanks, Airplanes, and submarines, or underwater boats (U-boats) were used as common weapons. Causes. On 28 June 1914, Archduke Franz Ferdinand, who was heir to the throne in Austria-Hungary, visited Sarajevo with his wife. Because of riots in the city, the archduke's procession decided to leave the city quietly through back roads after making their public appearance. A Serbian nationalist group called The Black Hand had sent five men to assassinate Ferdinand. All five of the men failed to kill the archduke while he passed through the large crowd. The grenades thrown at the car failed to kill him. After failing their mission, the five men decided to give up and go home. One of these men was a Bosnian student name named Gavrilo Princip, who was also part of a group called Young Bosnia. The archduke and his wife were leaving the city when the driver of their car took a wrong turn onto a large street with many people. The cafe Princip was in was on this street, and he went outside and saw the archduke and his wife. He took four shots; two hit the archduke, one hit his wife, and the other hit the car. Both Ferdinand and his wife died shortly after. Austria-Hungary blamed Serbia for the assassination. This quickly led to a full-scale war. Austria-Hungary declared war on Serbia. Both country's allies became involved in the war, and most of Europe became involved. Germany v. France and Russia. The reason Germany told France and Russia that they were at war so quickly, was because they thought they could win the war if they attacked first and quickly. They could mobilize very quickly. They had a list of all the men who had to join the army, and where those men had to go, and the times of every train that would carry those men to where they would have to fight. France was doing the same thing, but could not do it as quickly. The Russian army. Russia had a big army, but Germany thought that it would take ten weeks to mobilize and a long time before they could attack the Central Powers. That was not true, because the Russian Army mobilized in ten days. Also, the Russians drove deep into Austria. Britain v. Germany. Although it was friends with France and Russia, Great Britain did not go into the war quickly, but it decided to go to war against Germany when Germany attacked its important friend Belgium to get through to France. Britain had the biggest empire (parts of the world it ruled) and was afraid that Germany would take its and France's colonies and become the most powerful and biggest empire in the world. Britain was also worried about Germany's growing military power because Britain had the most ships (its navy) and a very big army for a long time. The Germans were quickly building ships and putting men in its army and Germany was almost going to become as powerful as Britain. Turkey v. Serbia. Turkey went into the war because it had lost much of its empire before the war and wanted to get it back. It hated Serbia because Serbia became its own country before the war and took many Turkish lands. When Austria went to war against Serbia, Turkey did too. Greece v. Turkey. Greece went into the war because it was an ally to Serbia. Serbia and Greece were free countries before Turkey took them hundreds of years before. Greece and Serbia became free again but a lot of Greek people still lived in Turkish lands which used to belong to Greece. The Greeks especially wanted their old important city of Constantinople back (now called Istanbul) where many Greeks lived and so the Greeks declared war on Turkey. Bulgaria v. Serbia and Greece. Bulgaria, like Greece and Serbia, was owned by Turkey before, got its freedom and took a lot of Turkish land. But when the Bulgarians did a short time before the war, the Serbians and Greeks felt cheated because the Bulgarians got a lot of land which they felt was Greek or Serbian. The Greeks and Serbians took back Bulgarian land and annoyed Bulgaria, which made Bulgaria become friends with their old enemy Turkey. They declared war on Serbia and Greece. This started a war which resulted in death of thousand people. Italy's Betrayal. In 1915, Italy could see that the Germans were losing. So, in order to receive some profit from the German colonies, which would be divided at the end of the war, Italy left Germany and joined the Allied side. But as it received nothing they were interested in another war. Romania's alliances. Romania was on the side of the Central powers until 1916, when they were forced into the war by the Allied powers. Important events in the war. Most people thought it would be a short war. They thought the armies would move around quickly to attack each other, and one would defeat the other without too many people getting killed. They thought the war would be about brave soldiers - they did not know what the war would really be like. Only a few people like Lord Kitchener said that the war would take a long time. Germany's plan. Germany's generals had decided that the best way to defeat France was to go through Belgium using a plan called "The Schlieffen plan".This was invented by the Germany Army Chief of Staff, Alfred von Schlieffen.They would then be able to attack the French army the north side and the south side at the same time. The German Army went into Belgium on the 4 August. On the same day, Great Britain started a war on Germany, because Britain was a friend of Belgium. The British had said some time before, in 1839, that they would not let anyone control Belgium, and they kept their promise. Germany's invasion of Belgium. When the Germans got to the Belgian city of Liège, the Belgians fought very hard to stop them from coming into the city. The Germans did finally push the Belgians out of the city, but it had taken longer than the German generals had planned. Then the Germans attacked the north side of the French army. The French and the British moved men up to fight the Germans. They could do this because the Belgians had fought so long at Liège. But the Germans pushed the French and British back, until they were stopped at the river Marne.This was called "The Miracle of the Marne. Trench warfare. In the fighting, many men had been killed. The new guns the men had fired very quickly. Some had machine guns, that fire so many bullets that the bullets fell like rain. So as not to get killed, the men on both sides took spades and dug holes. The holes joined up into trenches, until the lines of trenches went all the way from Switzerland to the North sea. In front of the trenches, there was barbed wire that cut anyone who tried to climb over it, and mines that blew up anyone who tried to run across the "no man's land" that was in between the trenches. In the East, the Russians had attacked the Germans. The Russians pushed back the Germans, but then the Germans defeated the Russians at the Battle of Tannenberg. Christmas. On Christmas day in 1914, many soldiers did not want to fight. They sang Christmas songs to each other. In many places on the Western front, they came out of the trenches and shook hands with each other. Sometimes they played football with each other. In some places, the men didn't want to fight again the next day. The generals were afraid and stopped this. Machine gun warfare. The machine guns and the trenches and mines made it very difficult to attack. The generals didn't remember this, and they still ordered attacks anyway. At the battle of the Somme in 1916 many British men died in a single day. It was one of the bloodiest days in the history of the British army. Often many men died fighting over very small pieces of land. USA v. Germany. The German generals decided to use submarines. These submarines were named U-boats, from the German word Unterseeboot (meaning underwater boat). The U-boats attacked American ships that were carrying food and weapons to Great Britain. The Germans thought that the Americans were helping only the British and not being neutral. "Neutral" means that a country is not involved in the war. But then some Americans were killed by the submarines. Because of this, the United States joined the war against Germany and became part of the Allies. Consequences of America joining the war. In the spring of 1918, the German generals decided they had to attack before many American soldiers came to Europe to attack them. The Germans attacked in a new way. They attacked where the Allies were weak, and did not attack the places where the Allies were strong. They pushed the British and French a long way in some places, but each time, the Germans were stopped. Then the Americans began to come to Europe. The British, the French and the Americans together began to push back the Germans. The Germans couldn't stop them. At last, the German generals told their government that the war had to be stopped, because Germany couldn't fight any longer. Germany asked for peace from the Allies, and the war ended on the 11th of November 1918. The First Russian Revolution. In 1917, there was a revolution in Russia. The Czar had to say he would not be Czar any more, and that the people should have power. At first it was thought that Russia would fight harder now that the Tsar was gone. But the Russian people didn't want to fight anymore. They began to hate their new government because it wouldn't stop the war. The Second Russian Revolution. Then, there was an October Revolution, which was a second revolution in Russia led by Communists that followed the ideas of Karl Marx. The leader of the revolution, and of Russia, then, was Vladimir Lenin. The new government asked for peace from the Germans. The Germans and Russians stopped fighting and signed the treaty of Brest-Litovsk. This gave Germany lots of land in eastern Europe and the Baltic. After the War. After the war, the Germans had to agree to the Treaty of Versailles. Germany had to pay $33 billion in reparations. Part of the treaty said the countries of the world should come together to make an international organization to stop wars from happening. This organisation was called the League of Nations. The US Senate didn't agree with this, even though it was the idea of the US president, Woodrow Wilson. Woodrow Wilson tried to tell the American people that they should agree, but the U.S. never joined the League of Nations.  
World Wide Web	The World Wide Web ("WWW" or "The Web") is the part of the Internet that contains websites and webpages. It was invented in 1989 by Tim Berners-Lee at CERN, Geneva, Switzerland. Sir Tim Berners-Lee created a new language called HTML. Websites are composed of pages linked by hypertext links. They are all written in HTML. The World Wide Web is not used to describe HTML webpages that are not part of the Internet. In order to see the World Wide Web one needs a computer and a computer program called a web browser. Many websites nowadays offer free websites allowing one to make websites that can be displayed on the WWW like any other domain (www.domain-name.com) site. These sites make money from advertisements instead of fees. One thing about "WWW" is that it takes longer to say it out "double-you, double-you, double-you" than just simply saying "World Wide Web". It acts as a abbreviation only when you write it out. Some people just say "triple double-you".  
Wiki	A wiki is a type of website that lets anyone create and edit its pages. The word is Internet slang. The word "Wiki" is short for WikiWikiWeb. "Wikiwiki" is a word from Hawaiian, meaning "fast" or "speed". Examples of wiki include Wikipedia, Anarchopedia, Conservapedia etc. Every wiki can be changed, or edited by everyone, although some important pages cannot be changed by anyone. Wikis are central places where we all can share information with each other, people can add new information, and then people read them. Wikis allow information from all around the world to be collection. In a wiki, people can write pages together. If one person writes something wrong, then the next person can correct it. The next person can also add something new to the page. Because of this, the page gets better whenever someone changes it. If someone writes information that is very obviously wrong, and the person actually wanted to vandalise, it would be changed by administrators, and the person will not be able to change the wiki anymore. People can discuss there as well. Discussion can make people understand things better, or gives people a chance to tell their views. In Wikipedia the talk pages are for that, but in some wikis, the article and the discussion are in the same page. Wikis can be used for different things and all wikis don't follow the same rules for using them. For example, the purpose of Wikipedia is to write articles, which form an encyclopedia. That's why in Wikipedia, people don't want to hear general discussion that doesn't help in writing articles. Ward Cunningham started the first wiki in March 1995. Many people liked the place and wrote there, after which they started similar websites.  
Website	A website is a set of webpages that are joined together. People look at websites with a computer of some kind, sometimes including the computer inside mobile telephones (see WAP) and televisions. They are hosted on computers called web servers. Homepage. There is almost always a single homepage which introduces the rest of the website - containing links to other pages that may be considered part of that "site" or part of other "sites" (in net jargon which confuses a physical site in the real world with a web URL - which is not physical). Uses. Websites can be used to advertise or sell things. They can also be used to talk to other people. A blog is a web where the location of the material is less relevant than who writes it, and which is more focused on dialogue. Very often the people who use blogs dislike the word "site" since it implies a controlled place. A wiki. A wiki is a website where people who visit it can edit it in most cases. Access. Users can access any web (site, blog, or wiki) by using a URL. The homepage and the rest of the site usually has the same root URL - for instance, pages at the Simple English Wikipedia always start "http://simple.wikipedia.org/..." but then are different after that. Appearence. Web sites are usually shown in HTML (Hyper Text Markup Language) but are not always written or maintained that way - some use WAP and others use XML.  
Word	A word is something spoken by the mouth, that can be pronounced. It is also a collection of letters used together to try to communicate a meaning, and these can also usually be pronounced. Some words can be only one letter, for example "a" and "I" in English. Besides English, every other language also has its own words. For example, "hello" is a word.  
Web browser	A web browser is a computer program that lets people find and read web pages on the Internet. Browsers read documents that are written in HTML (HyperText Markup Language) to display images and text with clickable links. They use rules such as HTTP (HyperText Transfer Protocol) to transfer data with the World Wide Web.  
World War II	World War II was a war fought between the Allies and the Axis Powers. It was called a "World War" because countries from every continent became involved, and fighting took place all over the world. Of all the wars ever fought, World War II involved the most countries, cost the most money, and killed the most people. About 72 million died, making it the worst human disaster of all time. It ran from 1939 until 1945. The two sides. The Axis Powers at the start of the war were Germany, Italy and Japan. These countries made an agreement called the Berlin-Rome-Tokyo Axis in the year of 1937, in which they agreed to help each other in military conflicts. This agreement, also called the Anti-Comintern Pact, was primarily aimed against the Soviet Union. The Allied Powers, or Allies, were the United Kingdom and France at the outbreak of war in September 1939. The Soviet Union joined the Allies in June 1941 after being invaded by Germany, and the United States joined the war on the side of the Allies on 11th December 1941, four days after the attack on Pearl Harbor, when Hitler declared war on the US. Canada, India, South Africa, Australia, and New Zealand were also part of the Allied coalition as British Dominions. Why the war started. In Europe, World War I occurred during the years of 1914 through 1918. Germany faced the burden of defeat. In the aftermath, Germany had to surrender a select area of land and money as compensation for the damage done. Areas along the Rhine River were occupied by France for a time. Germany was informed that its army had to have less than 100,000 men. Germany was not allowed to have an air force or big ships in its navy. Adolf Hitler, leader of the Nazi Party, took control of Germany in 1933. He prosecuted and persecuted others for whom he did not like. Hitler also expanded the size of the German air force, army, and navy. He wanted to take land from other countries, as well as hated many groups of people including Russians, Jews, and people with dark skin. In 1938, Germany threatened Czechoslovakia, a small country, but the Allies decided to stay neutral in this event. In fact the Britain and France made a pact with Germany, at Munich in September 1938, to take part of Czechoslovakia called the Sudetenland. Hitler promised that he would stop attacking, but six months later, he broke his promise and took over all of Czechoslovakia including the capital, Prague. The Allies, not including the United States, thought Poland would be the next country Hitler attacked. They promised to help Poland if it was attacked. In Asia, Japan attacked China in 1937. To stop the United States defending its islands and other countries in the Pacific Ocean, Japan attacked the naval base on Hawaii named Pearl Harbor in December 1941. Beginning of the War (September 1939 - August 1940). World War II began on September 1, 1939, in respone to the German invasion of Poland, with the aid of Russia. In response, Britain and France declared war on Germany. By 1941, Germany had conquered Poland, France, Norway, Holland, Belgium and Denmark, controlling most of Europe. Japan then started to begin to expand its country to include parts of China and some islands near the Pacific. September 1940 - May 1944. By September 1940, Hitler controlled large sections of Europe. He hoped that the British would ask for peace, but they did not. German aeroplanes bombed the city of London to weaken the British. The bombings lasted about two years. Winston Churchill played a major role in keeping citizens under control but by the time The Blitz ended many civilians lost their lives. In June 1941, Germany invaded the Soviet Union. The Soviets joined the Allied Powers. The majority of German forces would spend the war fighting the Soviets. Adolf Hitler planned to capture the Soviet Union and place a blockade (not letting anything in or out) on Britain, creating a "Fortress Europe" that would be very difficult to invade. The invasion started on June 22, 1941. The German army captured large amounts of Soviet land and encircled Leningrad. By December the Germans advanced as far as Moscow, but were stopped by Russian army. On December 7, 1941, Japanese fighters attacked an American port in Hawaii named Pearl Harbor. On December 11, the Axis Powers declared war on the United States. In November 1942, the battle fought there, named El Alamein, resulted in an Allied victory and Italy and the Allies became close. The German war machine needed more oil, as Germany only had the relatively small oilfields of Romania under its control. Therefore in 1942, when the Germans began advancing again in Russia, their target was the oilfields of the Caucasus. To secure this territory, the Germans needed to take the city of Stalingrad, but they were defeated in the Battle of Stalingrad, which was the turning point of the war. At the same time the Siege of Leningrad was relieved. On July 10, 1943, Allied forces landed on the Italian island of Sicily, in an operation named "Husky". They were successful in taking the island, and Italy fell shortly after. In the Pacific Ocean, the Japanese empire was getting bigger and bigger. The United States, now at war with the Axis, began to send out ships to attack the Japanese navy. The result of a large deployment, or sending out, of ships was the famous Battle of Midway on June 4, 1942, which was an American victory. Hoping that Japan was weakened by this defeat, the Americans landed in Guadalcanal on August 7, 1942. The result was another American victory, and a capture of a very important place. The war was very bad, both economically and socially. The European Front. As the war went on, the Allies saw that they would need to land in Europe to defeat Germany. They chose a small piece of coastline in France called Normandy for the invasion. On June 6, 1944, the Allies invaded Normandy and began the Battle of Normandy, code named Operation Overlord or D-Day. It was an Allied victory. As the Allies fought to get to Berlin, the capital of Germany, the Germans attacked fiercely to defend their land. The resulting battle was named the Battle of the Bulge, and was an Allied victory. It was the last time in the war that the Germans were able to send a major attack against the Allies. In the spring of 1945, the Soviet Red Army closed in on Berlin and captured it, defeating Germany. The Soviet general, Georgy Zhukov reached Berlin before the Americans, and won an unspoken "contest" between Generals to see who could get to Berlin first. The day that Germany officially surrendered (gave up), May 8, 1945, was a day marked with large celebrations. Today, the day is called V-E Day, or "Victory in Europe Day." The Pacific Front. After the battles of Midway and Guadalcanal, the Japanese were being pushed slowly out of the Pacific. Many battles were fought in the Pacific. The United States went on an "Island Hopping" campaign to capture small islands that were under Japanese control. Of these small islands came some very large battles, such as Iwo Jima and Okinawa in 1945. President Harry Truman of the Americans gave the order to drop an atomic bomb on Japan. On August 6, 1945, bombers dropped an atomic bomb on the city of Hiroshima. Three days later, on August 9, bombers dropped another atomic bomb on the city of Nagasaki. Only 6 days later, on August 15, Japan surrendered to the Allies. President Truman marked the end of the war on September 2, calling it V-J Day, or "Victory over Japan Day." Today it is sometimes called V-P Day for "Victory in the Pacific." Products of the War. The war introduced new methods for fighting, approaches, and knowledge gained during the war. A major new technology was radar (finding airplanes by using radio waves). The war also made weapons with far more killing power. The atomic bomb was first used by the United States during this war. President Truman ordered two atomic bombs to be dropped from airplanes on the two Japanese cities of Hiroshima and Nagasaki. No atomic weapons have been used in war since then.  
Webpage	A webpage is part of a website. It is in the form of text and images. Web pages are connected by links. Clicking on a link makes another webpage appear. Webpages are hosted on web servers.  
Wiktionary	Wiktionary is a wiki that creates a dictionary, or a group of meanings for words, for all words in all languages. Wiktionary is also a thesaurus. There is also a Simple English Wiktionary. Wiktionary is run by the Wikimedia Foundation, which also runs Wikipedia.  
Microsoft Windows	Microsoft Windows is an operating system made by Microsoft. It is currently the most widespread operating system in use, being used by 90% of computer users. Some believe that it only was more popular than Mac OS because it was programmed to be more flexible with non-Microsoft hardware, and is more well-known than Linux. It is installed on most new computers. Microsoft Windows was first made in 1985. The most recent version is Windows Vista which was released in 2007. Bill Gates helped with making Windows. He is now the vice chief executive officer of Microsoft. Windows lets people run programs and sort their files. It has many programs that come with it, these can read and write simple documents and pictures. There are also applications which let people use the internet, look at web pages and read e-mail. There is also an application for listening to music and watching videos; it is called Windows Media Player.  
Window	A window is an opening in a wall of a building, in a car etc., to let air and light in. It is usually filled with a sheet of glass. There can be many different shapes, including rectangular, square, circular, or irregular shapes. In a graphical operating system, a window is a rectangle within a screen that displays some data or pictures to a user. Windows can contain many things, for example a web browser.  
Wikimedia Foundation	The Wikimedia Foundation is a non-profit foundation in the United States that coordinates many projects using the wiki idea, and the MediaWiki software. These projects include Wikipedia, Wiktionary, Wikiquote, Wikisource, Wikinews, Wikibooks, Wikiversity, Wikimedia Commons, and Meta-Wiki. There are many other wikis to do with the foundation, but these are not very important. They include the Wikimedia Foundation wiki, the MediaWiki wiki, the Test Wikipedia, the Wikimedia Incubator, Bugzilla, and the Wikimania wiki. The foundation's creation was officially announced by Wikipedia co-founder Jimmy Wales, who was running Wikipedia within his company Bomis, on June 20, 2003. The foundation gets most of its funds from, as it is nonprofit. It also looks for grants. Some companies have helped Wikimedia by giving free computer hardware, and by hosting servers. Since people can write the wikis, Wikimedia projects are free to use.  
Wine	Wine is an alcoholic drink. Society usually uses the word for the drink made from the juice of grapes, although people sometimes call alcoholic drinks made from the juice of other fruits (such as plums or blackberries) "wine". This article only deals with wine made from grapes. Wine is made by the fermentation of the sugar in grapes. There are two main types of wine, red wine and white wine. Rosé wine is made by leaving red grapes in skin contact for very short. The colour comes only from the skin, so if you have short skin contact, the wine will not turn red but only "pink" (rose wine). Wine sometimes has bubbles in it; this wine is called sparkling wine. The most popular sparkling wine is champagne. People have been making wine for about 5000 years. France, Italy, USA, Germany, Spain, Argentina, the United Kingdom, China, Russia, and Romania. Luxembourg, France, Italy, Portugal, Croatia, Switzerland, Spain, Argentina, Uruguay, and Slovenia. France, Italy, Spain, USA, Argentina, Germany, Australia, South Africa, Portugal, and Chile.  
Width	In mathematics, we call the distance between the end of an object farthest to the left and the end of an object farthest to the right its width. For example, if we measure the distance between the left side and right side of your chair, we measure its width.  
Water	Water is the most common liquid on Earth. It covers more than three-fourths of Earth's area. Pure water has no smell, taste, or color. Lakes, oceans, and rivers are made of water. Rain is water that falls from clouds in the sky. If water gets very cold, it freezes and becomes ice. Frozen rain can be ice or snow. If water gets very hot, it boils and becomes steam. Plants and animals (including people) must drink water to live. It gives a medium for chemical reactions to take place, and is the main part of blood. It keeps the body temperature unchanging by sweating from the skin. Water helps blood carry nutrients from the stomach to all parts of the body to keep the body alive. Water also helps the blood carry oxygen from the lungs to the body. Saliva helps animals and people digest food. Water helps make urine. Urine helps remove bad chemicals from the body. The human body is 60–70% water. Water is the main component of drinks like milk, juice, and wine. Each type of drink also has other things that add flavor or nutrients, things like sugar, fruit, and sometimes alcohol. Water that a person can drink is called "potable" (or "drinking") water. The water in oceans is salt water, but lakes and rivers usually have unsalted water. There is only about 3% fresh water on earth, the rest is salt water. Water is a molecule made of 2 hydrogen atoms and 1 oxygen atom. Its formula is H2O. Water has a surface tension. So a little water forms drops on a surface, rather than spreading out to wet the surface. Water can also be called aqua  
Want	A want is a wish or a desire for something. If a person would like to have something, but can choose not to have it, that thing is wanted or can be called a want. To want is not the same as to need, which is when someone "must" have something. People often talk about needing a thing, when they really just want it. Wants can be for the same things as needs. For example, a person can "need" to eat food and can "want" to eat cake. If there is no cake then he or she may have to eat something else, perhaps bread. The need is no longer so important (the person is no longer hungry) although the want may still be there. If there is cake, then the person's needs and wants can both be met. In economics, a want is about goods or services. Choice is how to satisfy (or meet) a want, when there are different ways to do this. Want can also be the idea of what it means to be poor, hungry or with no money. Charles Dickens wrote a famous book called "A Christmas Carol" in which there are two children, named Want and Ignorance.  
Web server	A web server is a computer with a boot device or other disk containing a web site. The term may also refer to an application that helps a computer to perform web server functions. If one site runs more than one server they must use different port numbers. Alternatively, several hostnames may be mapped to the same computer in which case they are known as Apache and NCSA HTTPd are two popular web servers. There are many others including some for practically every platform. Servers differ mostly in the "server-side" features they offer such as server-side includes, and in their authentication and access control mechanisms. All decent servers support CGI and most have some binary API Server Languages. To work with the server, they must be a web-based language instead of being a language which is used to make normal computer programs.  
War	"For the 1970s funk band, see War (band)." War is any fighting involving the organized use of weapons and harmful force between countries or other large-scale groups. See Articles 2(3), 2(4) and 2(7) of the United Nations Charter. Many years ago, a German soldier named Karl von Clausewitz wrote in his classic book, On War: "Der Krieg ist eine bloße Fortsetzung der Politik mit anderen Mitteln" ("War is simply a continuation of politics with other methods") and "War is a way of using force to get our enemies to do what we want them to do." Wars have been fought to control natural resources, for religious or cultural reasons, over political balances of power, legitimacy (legality) of particular laws, to settle economic and territorial arguments, and many other issues. The reasons of any war are very complex; while a war can start for just about any reason, there is usually more than one issue involved. Kinds of war. Sometimes people see a difference between fighting between countries or people and the formal declaration of a state of war. Those who see this difference usually only use the word "war" for the fighting where the countries' governments have officially declared war on each other. Smaller armed conflicts are often called riots, rebellions, coups, etc. When one country sends armed forces to another country, supposedly to rebuild order or prevent killings of innocents or other crimes against humanity, or to protect another government friendly to it against an uprising, that country sometimes refers to it as a police action. This usage is not always recognized as valid, however, particularly by those who do not accept the usages of the term. A war where the forces in conflict live in within the same country is known as a civil war. War is contrasted with peace, which some people define as the absence of war. Another approach to classifying warfare divides it into four "generations" of war. First generation warfare. First generation warfare reflects tactics of the era of the smoothbore musket, the tactics of line and column. Operational art in the first generation did not exist as a idea although it was practiced by individual commanders, most famously by Napoleon. Second generation warfare. Second generation warfare was developed in response to the rifled musket, breechloaders, barbed wire, the machinegun, and indirect fire. Tactics were based on fire and movement but they remained linear, with the defense still trying to prevent all penetrations and the attacks along a sideways line advanced by rushes in small groups. Second generation tactics remained the basis of U.S. policy until the 1980s, and they are still practiced by most American units in the field. Third generation warfare. Third generation warfare was first developed by the Germans in World War I, to make up for their inability to match their enemies' industrial production. Its tactics were the first truly nonlinear tactics; attacks rely on penetration to get around and collapse the enemy's combat forces (rather than seeking to get close to the enemy and destroy them), and defense was in depth and often provoked (invited or encouraged) penetration to set the enemy up for a counterattack. Fourth generation warfare. Fourth generation warfare is what most people call a guerrilla war. Fourth generation warfare is far different from the other generations as the objective is not winning a military victory, but rather to destroy the spirit or political means of the enemy from attacking you. Usually it is when a country is brought into another one or when an outside force is trying to destroy the current government. For example, the later part of the Second Iraq war or the U.S. occupation period can be considered fourth generation warfare. Laws of war. A number of treaties and other agreements regulate warfare, collectively referred to as the "Laws of war". The most pervasive and famous of those are the Geneva conventions, the earliest of which began to take effect in the mid-1800s. Treaty signing has since been a part of international diplomacy, and too many treaties to mention in this article have been signed. A couple of examples are: Resolutions of the Geneva International Conference, Geneva, 26-29 October 1863 and Geneva Convention relative to the Treatment of Prisoners of War, 75 U.N.T.S. 135, entered into force Oct. 21, 1950. Statistical analysis. The statistical analysis of war was pioneered by Lewis Fry Richardson following World War I. More recent databases of wars have been assembled by the Correlates of War Project [1] and Peter Brecke [2]. See also. Military, Military technology and equipment, Military history, Military strategy, Military tactics, Just war, Frontline, Military-industrial complex, Weapon, Laws of war, Medieval warfare, World war, war profiteer, Attacks on humanitarian workers.  
Yiddish	Yiddish is a language at first a dialect of the German language that Jews began to use in Europe about one thousand years ago. It was (and is) used in the United States, especially in New York. In addition to most words of German source, Yiddish has many words from Hebrew and slavic languages, most notably polish. Yiddish is most often written using Hebrew characters. In the whole world, Yiddish is spoken by about 3 million people. It is mainly spoken by Hasidic Jews. European Charter for Regional or Minority Languages. In the Netherlands and Sweden, Yiddish is protected by the European Charter for Regional or Minority Languages  
Year	One year is about 365 days long (except in a Leap year). It is the time it takes the Earth to go completely around (Orbit) the sun once. A year is actually 365¼ days long, but a calendar has 365 days, except in a leap year. The year starts on January 1 in the Gregorian calendar, but a fiscal year or a school year can start on a different day of the year. There are several ways used to measure the length of a year. Solar and lunar years are used by different societies in daily life. The other measurements are used by astronomers.  
You	You is a second-person English pronoun. The word can be singular or plural. It is what a person says when he or she is addressing another person in second person.  
Chinese language	The Chinese language is the language used by Chinese in China and elsewhere. It forms one of the groups of a language family called the Sino-Tibetan family of languages. Chinese can refer to the written or the spoken languages. Chinese is special because although there are many spoken languages, they use only one way of writing the language. Therefore, it is possible to communicate by writing the same way. Many people in China think that although these different languages sound different, they are still one language. They call these different languages "dialects" to tell them apart from one another. they refer to the Mandarin language. There are also other Chinese languages, like the Wu and Cantonese, with many speakers. Chinese are used by the Han people in China and other races who have come to recognize themselves as Chinese. Chinese is almost always written in Chinese characters. They are symbols that have meaning, called logograms. Chinese characters have existed for over 5000 years. Nowadays the Mandarin language uses Hanyu pinyin to represent the sounds in Roman letters. All the Chinese languages (or dialects) uses tones. This means that they use pitch sound to set one syllable apart from another. In this way, it is very different from English and most Western languages. Traditional and Simplified characters. In 1956, the government of the People's Republic of China made public a set of simplified Chinese characters to make learning, reading and writing the Chinese language easier. In Mainland China and Singapore, people use these simpler characters. In Hong Kong, Taiwan, and other places where they speak Chinese, people still use the more traditional characters. The Korean language also uses Chinese characters to represent certain words. These are known in Korean as Hanja. A Chinese person with a good education today knows 6,000-7,000 characters. About 3,000 Chinese characters are needed to read a Mainland newspaper. Examples. Here are some samples of some words and sentences in Mandarin Chinese. Simplified Characters are on the left, and Traditional characters are on the right. The pronunciation is given in the pinyin system, which may not always be as simple as it looks for those who have not studied it. The Traditional Characters are now used in Hong Kong and Taiwan. Chinese from Mainland China uses the Simplified Characters, but may recognize Traditional Characters. Before 1956, every Chinese uses the Traditional characters. But during then, 80% of the Chinese people cannot read and write. Many people feel that Traditional Characters are just too hard to remember and write. Because of the use of Simplified Characters, currently in China, more than 90% of the people have learned to read and write Chinese. Hello. = Nǐ hǎo. = 你好。 How are you? = Nǐ hǎo ma? = 你好吗？ = 你好嗎？ What is your name? = Nǐ jiào shénme míngzi? = 你叫什么名字？ = 你叫什麽名字？ America = Měiguó = 美国 = 美國 Brazil = Bāxī = 巴西 France = Fǎguó = 法国 = 法國 Britain = Yīngguó = 英国 = 英國 Germany = Déguó = 德国 = 德國 Russia = Éguó = 俄国 = 俄國 Thailand = Tàiguó = 泰国 = 泰國 Poland = Bōlán = 波兰 = 波蘭 Japan = Rìbĕn = 日本 = 日本 Pakistan = Bājīsītǎn = 巴基斯坦 = 巴基斯坦  
Zero	Zero is a special number. If there are zero things, there are not any things. There are none. Example. John has zero hats. John does not have a hat. Symbol. The symbol for the number zero is "0". Arithmetic with Zero. Let "n" be any number except zero. Then, 0 ÷ "n" = 0. (0/"n" = 0) History of zero. The idea of zero was first thought about in Babylon, India and in Central America at different times. Some places and countries did not know about a zero, which may have made it harder for those people to do mathematics. Over hundreds of years the idea of zero was passed from country to country. From India and Babylon to other places, like Greece, Persia and the Arab parts of the world. The Europeans learned about zero from the Arabs. The place of zero as a number. Zero is not used as a place number (ordinal number). This means that it is not used like 1, 2, or 3 to indicate the order, or place, of something, like 1st, 2nd, or 3rd. 0 ÷ 0 = "not a number." In time, zero means "now". For example, a person is counting down the time to the start of something, such as a foot race or when a rocket takes off. The count is: "three, two, one, zero (or "go")". Zero is the exact time of the start of the race or when the rocket takes off into the sky. merged bit. 0 (zero) is both a number and a numerical digit used to represent that number in numerals. As a number, zero means "nothing" — an absence of other values. It plays a central role in mathematics as the additive identity of the integers, real numbers, and many other algebraic structures. As a digit, zero is used as a placeholder in place value systems. Historically, it was the last digit to come into use. In the English language, zero may also be called null or nil when a number, o/oh when a numeral, and nought/naught in either context. 0 as a number. 0 is the integer that precedes the positive 1, and follows −1. In most (if not all) numerical systems, 0 was identified before the idea of 'negative integers' was accepted. It means "courageous one" in hieroglyphics. Zero is a number which quantifies a count or an amount of null size; that is, if the number of your brothers is zero, that means the same thing as having no brothers, and if something has a weight of zero, it has no weight. If the difference between the number of pieces in two piles is zero, it means the two piles have an equal number of pieces. Before counting starts, the result can be assumed to be zero; that is the number of items counted before you count the first item and counting the first item brings the result to one. And if there are no items to be counted, zero remains the final result. While mathematicians all accept zero as a number, some non-mathematicians would say that zero is not a number, arguing that one cannot have zero of something. Others hold that if one has a bank balance of zero, one has a specific quantity of money in that account, namely none. It is that latter view which is accepted by mathematicians and most others. Almost all historians omit the year zero from the proleptic Gregorian and Julian calendars, but astronomers include it in these same calendars. However, the phrase Year Zero may be used to describe any event considered so significant that it virtually starts a new time reckoning. 0 as a numeral. The modern numeral 0 is normally written as a circle or (rounded) rectangle. In old-style fonts with text figures, 0 is usually the same height as a lowercase x. On the seven-segment displays of calculators, watches, etc., 0 is usually written with six line segments, though on some historical calculator models it was written with four line segments. This variant glyph has not caught on. It is important to distinguish the "number" zero (as in the "zero brothers" example above) from the "numeral" or "digit" zero, used in numeral systems using positional notation. Successive positions of digits have higher values, so the digit zero is used to skip a position and give appropriate value to the preceding and following digits. A zero digit is not always necessary in a positional number system: bijective numeration provides a possible counterexample. Distinguishing zero from O. The oval-shaped zero and circular letter O together came into use on modern character displays. The zero with a dot in the centre seems to have originated as an option on IBM 3270 controllers (this has the problem that it looks like the Greek letter Theta). The slashed zero, looking identical to the letter O other than the slash, is used in old-style ASCII graphic sets descended from the default typewheel on the venerable ASR-33 Teletype. This format causes problems because of its similarity to the symbol formula_2, representing the empty set, as well as for certain Scandinavian languages which use Ø as a letter. The convention which has the letter O with a slash and the zero without was used at IBM and a few other early mainframe makers; this is even more problematic for Scandinavians because it means two of their letters collide. Some Burroughs/Unisys equipment displays a zero with a "reversed" slash. And yet another convention common on early line printers left zero unornamented but added a tail or hook to the letter-O so that it resembled an inverted Q or cursive capital letter-O. The typeface used on some European number plates for cars distinguish the two symbols by making the zero rather egg-shaped and the O more circular, but most of all by slitting open the zero on the upper right side, so the circle is not closed any more (as in). The typeface chosen is called "fälschungserschwerende Schrift" (abbr.: "FE Schrift"), meaning "script which is harder to falsify". Note that those used in the United Kingdom do not differentiate between the two as there can never be any ambiguity if the design is correctly spaced. In paper writing one may not distinguish the 0 and O at all, or may add a slash across it in order to show the difference, although this sometimes causes ambiguity in regard to the symbol for the null set.  
Zoology	Zoology is a science. Zoology means "the study of wildlife". It is about animals. It is part of biology. Zoologists are scientists that study animals. They usually work on animals in the wild.  
Zinc	Zinc is a type of metal. Its symbol on the periodic table is "Zn". When it has been newly cut, zinc has a shiny white-gray color, but if it is exposed to air, it will not stay shiny for long. Zinc is used in electrical batteries, and in motorboats to slow rusting. The motor of a motorboat often has a "bullet" of zinc, that will corrode easily, but will help other metal parts of the motor to stay rust free. Many nails and pails also have a zinc outer surface to prevent rusting. We need a little bit of zinc to help our body run well. If we do not get enough zinc in our food, we can get sick. Some people even say that when we get colds, we should take more zinc. Vitamins and cereals contain zinc to make sure that we get enough.  
Zebra	A zebra is a mammal of the "Equidae" family. The name "zebra" is used for several different species of the genus "Equus". Zebras live in Africa. Zebras are related to horses and donkeys. Appearance. All zebras have a very short fur. Their fur has black and white stripes. The main part of the body has mostly vertical stripes, and the legs have horizontal stripes. They also have a dark line down their back. Each of the different zebra species has a bit different stripes. Life. Zebras live in families with one male and lots of females. They can have babies (foals) when they are about five years old and can have one foal every year. Zebras mainly eat grass, but they also eat fruit, leaves and some vegetables. They always live near water. Zebras live naturally in Africa, south of the Sahara desert. But most zoos have them as well.  
Zoo	A zoological garden, zoological park, or zoo is a place where many different species (types) of animals are kept so people can see and watch them. Modern zoos try not only to be for people's entertainment, but for education, research, and the conservation and protection of animals. Many zoos are centers where rare animals are preserved when they are in danger of dying out. These modern zoos also want to give the animals a natural life, so that they are healthy and behave normal. This is done for the animals, but also that people can see the animals as if they were in nature, and not in a zoo. In the past, but also today, there are a lot of zoos that are not like the modern type of zoo. There the animals are held in very bad conditions. They are kept in small cages, and they are bored and get sick.  
Copyright	A copyright is a law that gives the owner of a written document, musical composition, book, picture, or other creative work, the right to decide what other people can do with it. Copyright laws make it easier for authors to make money by selling their works. Because of copyright, a work can only be copied if the owner of the copyright gives permission. People who copy a work that is protected under copyright without permission can be punished by the law, usually with a fine. In other, more serious cases, a person who copies a work that is protected under copyright could be arrested or go to prison. Who owns copyright? In most countries, authors automatically own the copyright to any work they make or create, as long as they do not give the copyright to someone else. In most countries, there is no need to register the copyright, and some countries do not even have procedures to register copyrights. But, in countries where registration is available, without registration, it may be difficult to prove that the copyright of a work belongs to a certain author. So it is often a good idea to register anyway, especially for works that are sold for money. If an author gets paid to make a work for someone else, the person who pays for making the work (for example, the author's employer) will often get to own the copyright instead of the author him- or herself. For example if a person working for a company like Microsoft invents a new computer software program at work, the Microsoft company would own the copyright. Length of copyright protection. Copyright laws usually only protect the owner of copyright for a set period, such as 50 years. This period has now been extended to 70 years in most cases. When the period of copyright protection has ended, the written document, musical composition, book, picture, or other creative work is in the public domain. This means that no one owns the copyright to them, and everyone is free to copy, use and change them without having to ask for permission or pay the owner. Fair Use. There is an exception to the rules of copyright, called fair use. This means that people can copy a very small amount of a work to use in reviews or in research reports. An example of fair use is when newspaper writers quote several sentences from a copyright-protected document to tell the story. Another example of "fair use" is when a university professor quotes several sentences from a copyright-protected book in a review of the book, or in a research report. Copyright in different countries. Because of these differences, a certain piece of work may be under copyright in one country, and in the public domain in another. Creativity. Some people argue that copyright laws make it easier for people to make new works and think of new ideas. After all, if authors get to make money for the time, effort and money they put in, then they will want to make more works later, and make more money. But others believe that copyright laws make it harder to be creative. Without copyright, other people could change ideas, works and inventions and make them better, and copyright law often stops that. Publisher control. If an author wants to sell a work, it's often easiest to give the copyright to a publisher. The publisher will do all the selling, and in return for that service, will keep part of the money. But the publisher has many different things to sell, and they may not want to sell the work the author made. Authors often find it very hard to find a publisher willing to sell their work. But without a publisher, it can be even harder for an author to sell his or her work. In many markets, a few big publishers own the copyrights to almost everything available, and stores will not want to sell works published by small authors themselves. Many people say copyright law helps big publishers stay in control, and keeps smaller authors out of the market.  
Republic of China	The Republic of China (Taiwan) (ROC (Taiwan)) (Traditional Chinese: 中華民國, Simplified Chinese: 中华民国, Pinyin: Zhonghua Minguo) is a democratic island country in East Asia that is known around the world by most people as Taiwan. It located southeast of the People's Republic of China (PRC). Territory. The ROC used to govern Mainland China too. Now it is owned by the Communist People's Republic of China see History and Political problems of China. History. The Nationalists, led by Dr. Sun Yat-sen, got rid of the Qing Dynasty ruled by the Manchus, then they established the ROC and ended Imperial Dynastic Rule in late-1911. The ROC at that time had Mainland China and all of what is now called Mongolia. After the Japanese were defeated by the Allies during World War II, Taiwan was controlled by the ROC. In 1949, the Chinese Communists fought a war against the Nationalists and won. They established the People's Republic of China. The Nationalists left mainland China while having the lands they control now. Politics. After the ROC created a base on Taiwan, it hoped one day to capture the Mainland. But Chinese Communists grew stronger, so the Nationalists never did go back. The Communists say they replaced the ROC as the only government of China and also calls Taiwan their own. There are those people in Taiwan who want to never be a part of the People's Republic of China. They believe in complete Taiwan independence and want to rename the ROC (Taiwan) to "Republic of Taiwan" so Taiwan can no longer have any ancestral connection to China or Chinese culture. Some other people (about 10%) wishes to unite with the People's Republic of China; they want Chinese unification. But most Taiwanese (over 70%) want the "status quo": for the Republic of China (Taiwan) to remain an independent democratic country like it is now, without changing the name to Republic of Taiwan. Language. Most Taiwanese speak Chinese, and others speak Taiwanese or Hakka. A small percentage of the population is aboriginal, and these people have their own languages, although unfair treatment exerted by the Chinese population have been bad, and many of these people, and their languages, struggle to survive. Some older Taiwanese who went to school before 1947 can speak Japanese. After the Nationalist government fled the Mainland in 1948-49, they brought their language, Mandarin with them, and made Mandarin the only official language. Thereafter everyone in the ROC had to learn Mandarin. In the past, students were prohibited from speaking their mother tongue in school and were expected to speak only Mandarin. Taiwanese, Hakka, and native languages were considered bad until the early 1990s, when education in these languages began to be taught in some school systems. They were promoted, but by this time, many young people could speak only Mandarin. The Cantonese language, spoken in parts of southern China (for example, the province of Guang Dong, and the Special Administrative Region of Hong Kong), is not spoken in Taiwan.  
WikiWiki	<--/ sorry I mistake --The supposed ""Deletor"" -->  
Jail	A jail (sometimes spelled gaol) is a protected place where people are locked up. The police or other, similar groups that are meant to protect people, are in charge of it.  
Prison	A prison is an building where people who have been guilty and convicted of crimes are held. People are part of the criminal justice system of a country. Being sent to prison (which is called "imprisonment") is legal penalty that the state can give a person who is convicted of a crime by a court. Prisons are run by the state (government). People held in prisons are called inmates or convicts. Other words for prison include "penitentiary", "jail" or "gaol" (pronounced like "jail"), and "correctional facility". A person who has been charged with a crime may be sent to prison if the court thinks that the person may not come to their trial, or if the court thinks that the person may be a risk to the community. In some countries, prisons are also used for political prisoners (people who disagree with the country's leader or government). In times of war, prisoners of war may also be held in prisons. Prison buildings and facilities. Male and female inmates are usually kept in separate locations or in separate prisons. Prisons are usually surrounded by walls and gates. There are usually many locked gates inside the prison to control the inmates. The inmates sleep in small locked rooms called cells. Cells have a bunk bed, a toilet, and a sink. Inmates are allowed to leave their cell every day for exercise. Some inmates work in the prison during the day, either in a factory or doing cooking or cleaning. Law enforcement officers called prison guards watch the inmates. The manager of a prison is called the warden. Prisons usually also include other buildings and facilities, such as a chapel, a library, an exercise yard, a gymnasium, an infirmary (small hospital), visiting rooms (for visits from family and lawyers), kitchens, and accommodation for prison staff. Prisons for young people. There are special prisons for people under the age of 18 who commit crimes. These inmates are called young offenders or juvenile offenders. Controversy. Prisons are a controversial topic that people have different views about. Number of people in prison. As of 2006, there are nine million people are currently in prison in the world. The United States currently has the most people in prison; there are more than 2 million people in prison.In 2002, both Russia and China also had over 1 million people in prison. In 2003, the United Kingdom had 73,000 people in prison; France and Germany having a similar number of people in prison. Cultural references to prisons and prison life. There are many books and poems about prisons or prison life, such as "The Count of Monte Cristo" by Alexandre Dumas, père and "The Ballad of Reading Gaol" by Oscar Wilde. There have also been television programs, such as Prisoner (1979-1986) and Prison Break (2005-present).  
Mexico	Mexico is a big country in North America. North of Mexico are the United States, south of Mexico are Guatemala and Belize. Mexico is between the Pacific Ocean and the Gulf of Mexico. People living in Mexico or who are from there are called Mexicans. Most Mexican people speak Spanish. There are also Mexicans who speak Native American languages, like Nahuatl, Maya, and Zapotec. The capital of Mexico is Mexico City. History. Before the Europeans came, many great Native American cultures existed in Mexico. The earliest was the Olmec culture. The Olmecs are famous for the large stone heads they made. On the Yucatan peninsula lived the Mayans. The Mayans lived in city states ruled by kings. The Mayans were most powerful between 200 and 900 A.D. Another powerful culture was the one of Teotihuacan. Teotihuacan was a very large city, one of the largest that time. After Teotihuacan declined the Toltecs became powerful. Toltec influence has been found from the southern parts of the U.S. all the way to Costa Rica. A famous Toltec ruler was Quetzalcoatl. The Toltec culture declined too, and it was succeeded by the Aztecs. The Aztecs called their own empire Mexico. A famous Aztec king was Montezuma II. In 1519 the Spanish explorer Hernán Cortés came to Mexico. The Aztecs thought he was the returned Quetzalcoatl, so they did not want to fight against him. Cortes allied himself with the enemies of the Aztecs. In 1521 they conquered the Aztec capital Tenochtitlan. The Aztec Empire became part of Spain. It was called New Spain. In 1810 the Mexican priest Miguel Hidalgo started the Mexican war of independence. In 1821 the Spanish finally retreated and Mexico became independent. The first leader of independent Mexico was Agustin de Iturbide, he became emperor. But the Mexicans were not happy with him, and in 1823 the country became a republic. A man who was very important in Mexico in the early 19th century was Antonio López de Santa Anna. He was the president of Mexico 11 times. When he was president Texas declared independence (1836). In this war the famous Battle of the Alamo took place. Between 1846 and 1848 there was war between Mexico and the United States again. In this war Mexico lost many areas. After this war Santa Anna was sent away to Venezuela. Between 1858 and 1861 there was war again, between liberals and conservatives. The liberal Benito Juarez won the war and became president afterwards. Juarez stayed president until France invaded Mexico and made Maximilian of Habsburg emperor. But Maximilian was very unpopular. He was executed in 1867, and Juarez became president again. Conservatives thought Juarez had too much power. In 1876 they ousted him, and made Porfirio Diaz, a general who had won a battle against the French, president. Porfirio Diaz made the country wealthier, but the poor people became poorer. The poor were so unhappy they started the Mexican Revolution in 1910. The next 10 years the country was in chaos. There were many presidents who ruled for a short time and all kinds of people fought against each other. Famous people from this period are Emiliano Zapata, Pancho Villa and Francisco I. Madero. When Álvaro Obregón became president in 1920 the fighting calmed down. In 1929 President Plutarco Elías Calles founded the National Mexican Party, PNM. The party was later renamed Institutional Revolutionary Party, PRI. The party would rule for a very long time. Most PRI presidents weren't popular, it was said that they were only president to become richer themselves. An exception was president Lázaro Cárdenas. He was president between 1934 and 1940. After several decades more and more people became unhappy with the PRI. In 1968 security forces shot at protesters, this caused several hundred deaths and became known as the Tlatelolco massacre. Another uprising was in 1994 when Zapatistas rebelled in the province Chiapas. Mainly through ballot box fraud the PRI managed to stay into power until 2000, when Vicente Fox of the National Action Party, PAN, was elected president. In total the PRI had governed Mexico for 71 years. Politics. Mexico is a constitutional federal democracy ruled by a president. The president is elected every 6 years. The current president is Felipe Calderón. He has spoken against American plans to build a wall between the two countries to slow illegal immigration. Geography. Mexico is in the southern part of North America and is roughly shaped like a triangle. Mexico is more than 3000 km (1,850 miles) long from northwest to southeast. Mexico is between two large seas: the Pacific Ocean in the West and the Gulf of Mexico and the Caribbean Sea in the East. Mexico has two large peninsulas. Baja California in the Northwest, and Yucatan in the Southeast. In central and western Mexico are the Sierra Madre mountains. In the Sierra Madre is the Pico de Orizaba, the highest mountain of Mexico. In central Mexico there are also a few volcanoes like the Popocatépetl and the Iztaccíhuatl. The Pico de Orizaba is also a volcano. In the north of Mexico are deserts, in the south are tropical rainforests. Some rivers in Mexico are the Río Bravo (known in the US as the Rio Grande), the Río Grijalva, the Río Balsas, the Río Pánuco, and the Río Yaqui. People. Mexico is the most populous Spanish-speaking country in the world. It is also the second most populous country in Latin America (after Brazil). 60% of the Mexicans have Native American and European forefathers, they are called mestizos. Almost 15% of the Mexicans are pure Native American and 10% are European. Most Mexicans (90%) speak Spanish. 10% of the Mexicans speak a Native American language, like Nahuatl, the language of the Aztecs, Maya or Zapotec. Most people in Mexico are Roman Catholic (89%). 6% are Protestant.  
Atlantic Ocean	The Atlantic Ocean is the body of water bordered Scientists say that millions of years ago, there was only one ocean, and that most of the land in the world was joined together over where the Atlantic Ocean is now. Eventually, they think an enormous crack developed in the ground due to volcanic forces, and that the continents started ever so slowly drifting away from each other. The crack would have filled with water from rivers, and eventually the sea might have broken through from the north and the south. Even to this day, the east coast of the Americas is shaped somewhat like west coast of Africa, but the difference is actually much greater than it might appear, so it is not really an exact fit or even a close one. The Atlantic Ocean is still growing now, because of sea-floor spreading from the mid-Atlantic Ridge, while the Pacific Ocean is said to be shrinking because the sea floor is folding under itself. Gulf Stream. The Atlantic Ocean has important ocean currents. One of these, called the Gulf Stream, flows across the North Atlantic. Water gets heated by the sun in the Caribbean Sea and then moves northwest toward the North Pole. This makes France, Ireland, Britain, Iceland, and Norway in Europe much warmer in winter than Newfoundland and Nova Scotia in Canada. Without the Gulf Stream, the climates of northeast Canada and northwest Europe might be the same, because these places are about the same distance from the North Pole. There are currents in the South Atlantic too, but the shape of this sea means that it has less effect on South Africa.  
Mercury	Mercury means more than one thing.  
Mercury (element)	Mercury is a chemical element. Its symbol on the periodic table is Hg, and its atomic number is 80. It is a very poisonous silver-colored metallic liquid sometimes used in the manufacture of measuring instruments such as thermometers. It is also known as quicksilver Before better compounds were discovered, some mercury compounds were used in medicine to kill germs on the skin. Mercury was known to the ancients and its discoverer is unknown. It is the only metal, and except for Bromine, the only element known that is liquid under what is known as "normal conditions" (room temperature, normal pressure). The symbol "Hg" stands for its Latinized Greek name "hydrargyrum", meaning watery or liquid silver. It is very poisonous.  
Africa	Africa is the second largest continent in the world. It makes up just over a fifth of the world's land. It is surrounded by large areas of water. There are 61 countries in Africa, and 14% of the world's population live there. It is thought to be the continent where the first humans came from. North or Saharan Africa. Much of North Africa is dry and warm, as it is dominated by the Sahara Desert and does not receive a monsoon season. In Saharan Africa there are few rivers or other water sources for the people. The reason it is so warm and dry is because the continent is very wide - this means it is far away from the ocean, which brings rain and wind. Underground water sources, such as springs are very important in the desert. These often form oases. An oasis is an area of vegetation (plant life) surrounded by desert. Countries that are in the North, but are not part of the Sahara desert, are still affected by the very dry wind from the desert. These are very warm areas of the earth, and at the centre of the tropics is the equator (represented by the red line on the right). These lines do not really exist, they are used by people to show where the sun's rays are most powerful. In the extreme north, the climate is cooler and similar to the climate of European Mediterranean countries. Animals. Africa has a lot of wildlife. There are many types of animals there. Some are cheetahs, elephants, lions, snakes, giraffes, and a lot more. Over 2,000 types of fish live in African lakes and rivers.  
Butter	Butter is a dairy food product, made by churning the cream obtained from whole milk. It is commonly used as a spread on bread and a main ingredient in biscuits, as a shortening agent in some baking and cooking recipes, and sometimes as a frying medium. Butter is nearly pure fat, so margarine, which has less fat and cholesterol, might be a heathier choice for some people. It also is usually cheaper.  
Cold War	The Cold War took place between 1945 and 1991. The Cold War was not like any other war, because the two main enemies' armies never actually fought against each other. The term "Cold" war is used to describe the relations between the United States and the Soviet Union during the 45 year period after the end of World War II because neither country liked each other. Many people were afraid that it might end in a nuclear war, but that never happened. Conflicting countries. The United States and Soviet Union each had many countries from around the world on their side. The United Kingdom, France, Australia, West Germany, Canada, and the Netherlands were countries on the American side. East Germany, Czechoslovakia, Romania, Hungary, Poland were on the soviet side, and Cuba, North Korea, China, Mongolia and also other countries at different times were friendly to the Soviets. Before the Cold War. The cold war was partially due to the different ways of thinking, both in economy and the way of governing. The United States had adopted capitalism as their economic system while the Soviet Union chose communism, the US was democratic while USSR was nearly a dictatorship. These differences lead to angry relationship between the two countries World War II. The USSR and the United States were allies when World War II happened because neither country liked Nazi Germany. Even though they were allies, they still did not like each other. Soviets thought that the United States and the United Kingdom would not start fighting Germany until Germany had already beat the USSR. The Allies made Germany into four different parts. One part was for the United Kingdom, one part was for France, one part was for the USSR, and one part was for the United States. The city Berlin also was made separate like the country, even though Berlin was in the USSR part of Germany. The three western countries decided to put their parts of Germany back together to make a country called the Federal Republic of Germany ("Bundesrepublik Deutschland" or BRD). The USSR made their part of Germany into a country called the German Democratic Republic ("Deutsche Demokratische Republik" or DDR). The western parts of Berlin were put together to make a city called West Berlin, which was a BRD enclave inside of the DDR. Complications. The Cold War was related to many local wars, such as the U.S led Korean War, Soviet invasions of Hungary and Czechoslovakia and the Vietnam War, also organized by the United States. These wars, when two small countries fight each other with help from powerful countries, are called proxy wars. The Cuban Missile Crisis was a part of the Cold War, and Middle East Crisis has also become much more complicated because of the Cold War. Resolutions during the Cold War. Western democracies and the Soviet Union discussed World War II at conferences in Tehran (November-December 1943), Yalta (February 1945), and Potsdam (July-August 1945). In the end. After Stalin's death, East-West relations got better, but were never completely healed. A final phase during the late 1980s happened under the Soviet President Mikhail Gorbachev, who hoped for a healing between the two states that could address many world problems. However, this never happened, because the peoples who lived in the Soviet Union decided to do away with Communism, since it had failed them for 80 years and denied them basic freedoms. By 1990, the Soviet Union broke apart into many countries, the Berlin Wall was torn down, the nations of Eastern Europe had multi-party democracies, and the Cold War was over.  
Mainland China	Mainland China is the part of China not including the Republic of China controlling Taiwan, Kinmen, Matsu, and the Pescadores. The term also excludes Hong Kong and Macau. In the Qing Dynasty, all of Mainland China, Hong Kong, Macau, Taiwan, Kinmen, Matsu, the Pescadores, and Mongolia were part of the Chinese Empire. Taiwan, Hong Kong, and Macau were given to foreigners for some years (Taiwan to the Japanese, Hong Kong to the British, and Macau to the Portuguese). By the end the Qing Empire, China became Nationalist China (the Republic of China) and it got Taiwan back in 1945. After the Communists (the People's Republic of China) took over most of China, the Nationalists kept only Taiwan, Kinmen, Matsu, and the Pescadores. Mongolia became an independent state later. Since then, Communist China only includes the part on the continent (mainland) and some small islands that are very near (the largest communist island is Hainan). This region is Mainland China. Later Hong Kong and Macau returned to the government of China, but sometimes they are still not thought of as part of Mainland China.  
Endogenetic process	The endogenetic processes are the processes that shape the land by forces coming from within the earth (endogenetic forces). There are 3 main endogenetic processes: folding, faulting and vulcanicity. They take place mainly along the plate boundaries, which are the zones that are not stable. Endogenetic processes cause many major landform features.  
Capital (city)	The capital city (or just capital) is a city where the central government of a country, or part of a country, such as a state, province, or county, is located. The leaders and officials work in the capital city. Capitals are usually large cities. For example, Montevideo is Uruguay's biggest city, and Uruguay's capital. However, a capital is not always the largest city in a country. For example, the capital of the the Republic of India is New Delhi, which is smaller than Mumbai, and the capital of Pakistan is Islamabad, which is smaller than Karachi, both Mumbai and Karachi are very big cities. Some countries have more than one capital, like Bolivia, which has two, and South Africa, which has three. Nauru is a country that does not have a capital. Some countries change capitals from time to time. Do not confuse "capital" with "capitol", which is a building in the capital of the United States of America.  
Faulting	A fault, strictly speaking, is a planar fracture through a rock, wherein the motion along the fracture is in the plane of the fracture. If there is no relative sliding motion along a fracture, that is, it only opens, it is a joint. Faulting occurs when shear stress on a rock overcomes the cohesion and frictional force on the rock. The fracture itself is called a fault plane, although it is not necessarily planar. When it is exposed at the earth's surface, it may form a cliff or steep slope called a fault scarp. The angle between the fault plane and an imaginary horizontal plane is called the dip angle of the fault. Faults may dip shallowly or steeply. Faults are generally categorized in three types, depending on the orientation of the fault plane, relative to the direction of motion on the fault. A normal fault is one where the fault dips toward the downthrown block. Motion on normal faults produce overall extension and thinning of the crust. Normal faults characterize rifted terranes, such as Mid-Ocean Ridges, the African Rift, and the Basin and Range Province of western North America. It is shown on geologic maps as a black line with either a block pattern on the downthrown side, or the letters U/D showing the upthrown and downthrown sides. A reverse fault (if steeply dipping) or thrust fault (if shallowly dipping) is a fault where the fault plane dips toward the upthrown block. It is shown on the geologic map with triangular teeth pointing toward the upthrown side of the fault. Reverse and thrust faults effectively shorten (horizontally) and thicken the crust. They are characteristic of collisional origins. A transform (oceanic) or strike-slip (continental fault is one where the relative motion is horizontal. The fault plane is usually vertical. Famous examples of these include the San Andreas Fault of California, the Alpine Fault of New Zealand's south island, and the Anatolian Fault in Turkey.  
Climate	Climate is the average weather conditions at a particular place over a long period of time. Climate is the long-term predictable state of the atmosphere. It is affected by physical features such as mountains, rivers, positioning of the globe, plateaus, deserts, depressions and much more. The major elements of weather and climate: temperature, air pressure, wind, precipitation, relative humidity, and sunshine. They help people to describe the conditions of weather and climate. The climate of a place is given names such as Temperate, Arid, Cold, Dry, Tundra, Tropical, Equatorial, Mediterranean, Savanna, etc. Subarctic. Regions having a subarctic climate (also called boreal climate) are characterized by long, usually very cold winters, and brief, warm summers. Temperate. Temperate climates have four seasons. Some of the countries which have a temperate climate are: Turkey, and most of the European countries. Arid. Arid climates are hot climates, like deserts. They just have one or two seasons such as: Saudi Arabia and most of the African countries. Tropical. Tropical climates have warm temperature and only two seasons; Wet and Dry Mediterranean. The Mediterranean climate is usually hot and dry in summer, and is cool and wet in winter. Savanna. The savannas' climate is often tropical wet and dry. See also: Köppen's climate classification scheme  
Fold (geology)	Folding is one of the endogenetic processes. When two forces act towards each other from opposite sides, the rock layers will be bent into "folds". The process by which folds are formed due to compressional force is known as folding. There are large-scale and small-scale folds. Large-scale folds are found mainly along destructive plate boundaries. Structure of a fold. The upfold is called an anticline. The downfold is called a syncline. The imaginary line joining the highest points along the upfold is called the crest line. The flanks of a fold are known as the limbs. The central line from which the rock strata dip away in opposing directions is called the axis of fold. According to the degree of folding of the layers, folds can be classified into five main types. Formation of a fold mountain. Large depressions called geosynclines form between plates. Seas filled the geosynclines and rivers flowing into them carried sediments (sand and silt) which build up on the sea bed. Over millions of years the sediments were compressed, by their own weight, into sedimentary rocks, e.g. sandstone, limestone etc. Landforms formed by folding. Large-scale folding will develop parallel ranges of round-top mountains along destructive plate boundaries. These mountains are known as fold mountains.  
Vulcanicity	Vulcanicity (also known as volcanic activity or igneous activity) is one of the endogenetic processes. Magma under the crust is under very great pressure. When folding and faulting occur, cracks or fractures which are lines of weakness. When these lines of weakness develop downward in the crust and reach the magma, they will release the pressure in the magma. This allows magma to rise up along the lines of weakness and intrude into the crust. Some magma may even reach the earth's surface. There are two types of vulcanicity: intrusive and extrusive. Intrusive volcanicity. Intrusive vulcanicity refers to magma (molten rock) being forced into the rocks that make up the Earth's crust. It occurs when there are lines of weakness such as faults, joints, or bedding planes in the crust. Then magma enters these lines of weakness. When it cools and become solid while still underground, different features called plutons are formed. The rock formed is intrusive igneous rock. These plutons will be exposed at the surface of land when the overlying rocks are removed after a long time of denudation (laid bare by erosion). Major features formed by intrusive volcanicity include: batholith, laccolith, dike, pipe and sill. Extrusive volcanicity. The magma under great pressure with molten materials forces its way through the fissure of the underground rocks and reaches the earth's surface to form igneous extrusion. When the molten materials reaches the surface, it is called extruded materials and such volcanic activity is known as extrusive or surface vulcanicity.Some people classified extrusive vulcanicity into vent eruption and fissure eruption depending on how the magma rising to the ground. Major extruded materials include gas,liquid and solid. When uprising magma decreases in pressure suddenly,gases within magma explode to the earth's surface and cause destruction. Solid - pyroclast:Mainly composed of: fragments of country-rock,solidified lava and fine materials of volcanic ash and dust.It can be classified in term of size into volcanic bombs,volcanic blocks,lapilli,volcanic ash and volcanic dust. Liquid - lava,hot spring.  
Pacific Ocean	The Pacific Ocean is the body of water between Asia and Australia in the west, the Americas in the east, the Southern Ocean to the south, and the Arctic Ocean to the north. It is the largest named ocean and it covers half the surface of the entire world. It joins the Atlantic Ocean at a line drawn due south from Cape Horn, Chile/Argentina to Antarctica, and joins the Indian Ocean at a line drawn due south from Tasmania, Australia to Antarctica. As the Atlantic slowly gets wider, the Pacific is slowly shrinking. It does this by folding the sea floor in towards the centre of the Earth - this is called subduction. This bumping and grinding is difficult so there are many earthquakes and volcanoes when the pressure builds up and is suddenly released when the rocks break. When an earthquake happens under the sea, the sudden violent jerk causes a tsunami. This is why tsunamis are more common around the rim of the Pacific than anywhere else. Many of the Earth's volcanos are either islands in the Pacific, or are on continents within a few hundred kilometres of the ocean's edge.  
Antarctica	Antarctica is a large continent located at the far south of the world. It is larger than Europe. The weather there is extremely cold. About 98% of Antarctica is covered with ice. Very few people live there, except in the small towns of McMurdo and Palmer on the coast. There is a science station at the South Pole where experiments are carried out. These experiments are to do with the weather and outer space exploration. People who want to go to Antarctica usually fly there. However, it is also possible to book tourist cruises to visit the continent. These depart from Ushuaia, which is in southern Argentina. Antarctica is the only continent with no countries in it. By international treaty, none of the land in Antarctica belongs to any country. There are very few plants in Antarctica; the only large air-breathing animals are penguins, seals, and whales. Antarctica is surrounded by the Pacific Ocean, the Atlantic Ocean, and the Indian Ocean, but more recently, the seas right around it have together been called the Southern Ocean. The next nearest continent is South America. In Antarctica, it is always dark during the winter, but in the summer the sun shines 24 hours a day. There is one volcano in Antarctica. It is named Mount Erebus. Mount Ereubus is very high.  
South Pole	The South Pole is the most southern point on the Earth. It is also known as Antarctica In fact, there are two main south poles. One is fixed, and one moves around. The Magnetic North and South Poles are where a magnetic compass points. These poles move from year to year. People can tell they are near these poles by looking at a compass. From the South pole, everywhere is North (but a compass is not reliable very close to the poles)! The Geographic North and South poles are the poles the earth spins aroud, the ones people see on a globe where all the north/south lines meet. These poles stay in the same place, and are usually the ones we mean if we just say North or South Pole. People can tell that they are at these poles by looking at the stars (at the poles, a star just circles around at the same height, never dipping to the horizon). Antarctica, is a very cold place. For many weeks in the middle of winter, the sun never rises. In the middle of summer, late December through late March, the sun never sets. At the pole itself, there is a six-month winter where the sun never rises. Once the sun does come up, it is the beginning of a six month summer where a person can stand there at any hour on the clock and observe the sun above the horizon appearing to slowly travel counter-clockwise around him. The South Pole is hard to reach. Unlike the North pole, which is covered by the sea and flat sea-ice, the South Pole is on a mountainous continent. This continent is called Antarctica. It is covered by thick ice (more than a mile thick in the centre). The south Pole is very high up, and is very windy. It is far from places where people live, and ships going there often have to find their way through thick sea ice. Once ashore, land-travelling explorers have to travel more than a thousand miles to get to the pole. They must cross a floating ice shelf, then up onto the ice-covered land, up steep mountain glaciers covered in broken, twisted ice slowly sliding to the sea, and across a high level land ("plateau") covered in ice and swept by strong freezing winds. Two expeditions in the early years of the century, led by Robert Falcon Scott and then Ernest Shackleton, failed to reach the South Pole, but returned safely. Shackleton turned back quite close to the pole, but it was late in the season and supplies were low. He knew that he would be risking the lives of his men: to his credit, he turned back. The first men to reach the South Pole were a group from Norway led by Roald Amundsen. They arrived at the Pole on December 14, 1911 and left the Norwegian flag. Amundsen and his men returned home safely. Amundsen's story is one of excellent planning, good leadership, and willingness to learn from others: this made extreme endurance unnecessary, and perhaps made the successful expedition less of a story, and therefore perhaps less famous, than the next one. The most famous South Pole expedition is perhaps the one that failed badly. This was the British expedition (not just UK, it included people from the British Empire, who at that time were considered British citizens) led by Robert Falcon Scott. Scott and four other men, dragging their equipment on sledges, had hoped to be first to the Pole. When they arrived there, they saw a Norwegian flag. A letter left for Scott showed that Amundsen and his men had beaten them by a month, by using dogs to pull their sledges. On their journey back from the Pole, Scott's team found that food "dumps" were short of supplies, particularly kerosene. Kerosene was very important: not just for cooking but for melting ice. Once it ran out, they would have no water to drink. One man collapsed and died while walking. Oates knew his frostbitten feet could not carry him back to base, and that he might delay his companions and risk their lives. He committed suicide by walking out of their tent into the cold. Scott and his remaining two companions died of starvation, thirst, and cold - trapped in the tent by bad weather until their supplies ran out. Next spring, the three bodies in the tent were found by a team from the main part of the expedition - who had spent the winter in the expeditions's hut by the sea. Scott's letters to his wife, written in the tent when he knew he was going to die, have just (Jan 2007) been made public. Apart from Shackleton's expedition to cross the Antarctic (another heroic failure, but Shackleton saved all his men, after a very courageous sea crossing in an open boat, and a crossing of an unknown mountain range while starving and freezing) this was the end of the "heroic" age of exploration. Motors, Planes, Radios, and GPS ensured that following expeditions were never truly "unsupported". Today there is an American science base at the South Pole. It is named the Amundsen-Scott South Pole Station to honor the two explorers.  
Indian Ocean	The Indian Ocean is the ocean surrounded by Asia to the north, Australia and the Pacific Ocean to the east, the Southern Ocean to the south, and Africa and the Atlantic Ocean to the west. It is so named because the south Asian country of India is located on its shore. The Bay of Bengal, the Arabian Sea, the Persian Gulf and the Red Sea are all parts of this ocean. The deepest point in the Indian Ocean is located in Java Trench, it is 25,344 feet deep. The avrage depth is 13,002 feet deep. The Indian Ocean is 28,350,000 square miles in size.  
Arctic Ocean	The Arctic Ocean is the ocean around the North Pole. The most northern parts of Eurasia and North America are around the Arctic Ocean. Thick pack ice and snow cover most of this ocean. An icebreaker or a nuclear-powered submarine can use the Arctic Ocean to go between the Pacific and Atlantic oceans. The ocean's area is about 14.056 million sq km, which is the smallest of the world's four oceans, and it has of coastline. The central surface covered by icepack about in thickness. The biology there is quite special. Some endangered animals there include walruses, whales and polar bears. The average depth of the Arctic Ocean is. The deepest point is in the Eurasian Basin, at.  
Inuit	The Inuit are one of many groups of First Nations who live in very cold places of northern Canada, Greenland, and Alaska. They are sometimes called "Eskimos", a word which likely comes from the Algonquin language and may mean "eater of raw meat". The Inuit generally prefer not to be called "Eskimos" but it is a name that was given to them by others, not a name they gave themselves. "Inuit" means more than one, one person is an "Inuk". The native Greenlanders are related to the Inuit. The Inuit used to hunt seals. They also traded fur with the Europeans. They once lived in houses made of snow called igloos. The knowledge of how to construct an igloo was passed down from generation to generation. The language of the Inuit is Inuktitut, and it is one of the official languages of Nunavut and of the Northwest Territories in Canada.  
Basket	A basket is a container. It is usually light. People weave narrow pieces of material together to form baskets. Wood, grasses, or wicker are often used to make baskets. They are also made out of plastic today. In basketball, the basket is an open net fixed to a metal ring in which players try to throw the ball.  
Software	Software is short for computer software. It means the applications and operating systems used with computers. The term software was first used in the late 1960s to show the difference from computer hardware, which are the fixed parts of a machine. Before compact discs (CDs) or Internet downloads, applications and operating systems came on soft media like magnetic discs and magnetic tape. Software is an essential part of today's society. Basically software tells the hardware when to do a specific task. The advancement of software is ever-changing and developers are creating different kinds programs to help businesses, corporates and everyone around the world. Gone are the days of filing information manually, with today's software everything is done in a fraction of the time.  
Container	A container is an object used for holding something. People put things in a container.  
South America	South America is the continent located to the south of America. These two continents are separated by the Panama Canal. It is bounded on the west by the Pacific Ocean and on the east by the Atlantic Ocean.  
Bed	A bed is a piece of furniture. It is used for sleeping on.  
Asia	Asia is the largest continent on Earth, placed in the northern hemisphere. It is connected to Europe in the west. Together, Asia and Europe are called Eurasia. Asia is surrounded by the Mediterranean Sea, the Black Sea, the Arctic Ocean, the Pacific Ocean, and the Indian Ocean. It is separated from Europe by the Caucasus Mountains and the Ural Mountains. Some of the oldest human civilizations began in Asia, such as Sumer, China, and India. China and India are also the two countries with the most people in the world. A long, mainly land border in the west separates Europe and Asia. This boundary runs North-South down the Ural Mountains in Russia, along the Ural River to the Caspian Sea, and through the Caucuses Mountains to the Black Sea. About three-quarters of Russia lies in Asia, while the rest is in Europe. Small parts of four other Asian countries are in Europe. The Asian continent is the largest of all continents. Covering about 3/10 of the world's land area, it has more people than any other continent with about 3/5 of the world's total population. Stretching from the icy Arctic in the north to the hot and steamy equatorial lands in the south, Asia contains huge, empty deserts, as well as some of the world's highest mountains and longest rivers.  
Wall	A wall is a vertical dividing surface. It divides space in buildings into rooms or protects or pictures a space in the open air. It is usually made of stone or brick. Walls have 2 main purposes: to support the top part of buildings, and to divide space, giving protection from invasion and weather. Before artillery was invented, many cities in Europe had protective walls. Since they are not suitable for defense any more, the walls have been destroyed. The term "the Wall" usually referred to the Berlin Wall, built during the Cold War, which fell in 1989. See also: fire wall, Wall painting, wallpaper, Great Wall of China and Western Wall in Jerusalem.  
Coordinated Universal Time	Coordinated Universal Time (UTC) is the standard time zone of the world. The standard before was Greenwich Mean Time (GMT). UTC and GMT are almost the same. It is also called civil time and Zulu time. Some websites, like Wikipedia, use UTC because it does not make any country look more important than the others. It offers one time for all the internet (the same time can be used by people all over the world). Timezones are often named by how many hours they are different from UTC time. For example, UTC -5 (United States east coast) is 5 hours behind UTC. If the time is 07:00 UTC, the local time is 02:00 in New York (UTC -5) and 10:00 in Moscow (UTC +3) When this page loaded, it was, in UTC  
Television	A television (also TV, telly or tube) is a device (pool) with a screen that receives broadcast signals and turns them into pictures and sound. The word "television" comes from the words "tele" (Greek for "far away") and "vision" ("seeing"). History of Television. Usually a TV looks like a box. Older TVs had large wooden frames and sat on the floor like furniture. Newer TVs are much more varied. Some TVs can fit in your hand and run with batteries. Other TVs can take up a whole wall in a house, and may sit on the floor, or be just a large flat screen that can be mounted on the wall. A television can show pictures from many places. At first, everyone used an antenna (or aerial). This would pick up shows from broadcast television stations. A TV station could be many miles away, and still be picked up. TVs can also show movies from VCD and DVD players or VCRs. Cable TV and Satellite TV can provide more programs at once than broadcast can. Video game consoles connect to TVs. Some computers can also use a TV as a monitor. All TVs have screens where the picture is viewed. Before the 1970s these were usually "black and white", which made everything look grey. But now almost all TVs show colors. Screens also used to have rounded corners, but now they are usually mostly flat rectangles with straight edges. Before the 1990s, all TV screens had the same shape - they were a little bit wider than they were tall. For example, if a screen was 3 inches tall, it had to be 4 inches wide. Or if the screen was 30 cm tall, it had to be 40 cm wide. Now however, a new shape is becoming more popular. It is a wider rectangle that looks more like the shape of a movie theatre screen. This is called widescreen. If a widescreen set was 30 cm tall, it would be 53 cm wide. For this to work best, TV shows also need to be made in widescreen. Widescreen sets can still be any size, but they have the same widescreen shape. All TVs used to be made with cathode ray tubes. These are like heavy glass jars with one side facing out to form the screen. Today there are also LCD, Plasma, Rear-Projection, and OLED (Organic Light Emitting Diode) TVs. Those kinds of TVs are better in many ways, but cathode ray tubes still cost less. Many people think that cathode ray tubes still show the best quality pictures, but the other kinds of screens are improving quickly.  
Sociology	Sociology is the study of societies and how humans act in groups. Sociology is a social science. Auguste Comte (1789 - 1857) was first to use the term. The problems caused by the change to an industrial society, where many people moved to cities and worked in factories, was an early focus of sociology. Karl Marx, Max Weber and Emile Durkheim were leading figures in the study of social phenomena. Themes included: community, authority, status, “alienation” (isolation) and lack of power. In the 2000s, sociology looks at such things as: race, ethnicity, class, gender, the family and social interaction. It also studies the breakdown of social structures; crime and divorce. Sociology can also be looked at as the study of the world-wide society. A society is the community of people living in a particular country or region and having shared customs, laws, and organizations. What do sociologists do? Sociologists research the structures that organize society, such as race, gender (whether a person is male or female), and social classes (rich or poor). They study the family and examine problems such as crime and drug abuse. Most sociologists work in one or more specialty areas or "sub-fields". Sociology includes many sub-fields that examine different aspects of society. For example, social stratification studies inequality and class structure in society. The field of demography studies changes in a population size or type. The field of criminology examines criminal behavior and crime. Political sociology studies government and laws. Sociology of race and sociology of gender examine how people think about race and gender. Many sociologists also do research outside of the university. Their research helps teachers, lawmakers, and government administrators to make better institutions, government programs, and rules. Sociologists often use statistics to count and measure patterns in how people act or behave. Sociologists also interview people or hold group discussions to find out why people behave in certain ways. Some sociologists combine different research methods. History of sociology. Social analysis has been done since the time of Plato, an ancient Greek philosopher. Sociology became a type of science in the early 1800s. European cities were changing as many people moved into cities and began working in factories. Sociologists tried to understand how people interacted and how groups interacted. The word sociology was invented by a French thinker called Auguste Comte in 1838. Early 1900s thinkers who wrote about sociology included Karl Marx and Max Weber. Sociology was taught in a university for the first time at the University of Kansas in 1890. The first European department of sociology was founded in 1895 at the University of Bordeaux by Émile Durkheim. The first sociology department to be established in Britain was at the London School of Economics and Political Science in 1904. In 1919 a sociology department was established in Germany at the Ludwig Maximilians University of Munich by Max Weber.  
Germany	The Federal Republic of Germany also called Germany (German: Bundesrepublik Deutschland also called Deutschland) is a country in the middle of Europe. It is an important country in international politics. To the north of Germany are the North Sea, the Baltic Sea, and the country of Denmark. To the east of Germany are the countries of Poland and the Czech Republic. To the south of Germany are the countries of Austria and Switzerland. To the west of Germany are the countries of France, Luxembourg, Belgium, and the Netherlands. West Germany was one of the countries that started the European Union. History. Germany gained importance as the Holy Roman Empire of the German Nation,which was the first "Reich" translated as kingdom. It was started by Charlemagne who became the first Holy Roman Emperor in 800 AD, and it lasted until 1806 the time of the Napoleonic Wars. The second "Reich" was started with a treaty in 1871 in Versailles. The biggest state in the new German Empire was Prussia. The Kings of Prussia were also "German Emperors" they did not call themselves "Emperors "of" Germany". There were many other kingdoms, duchies and republics in the Empire, but not Austria. Germany stayed an empire with many different kinds of people for another 50 years. The treaty of unification was made after Germany won the Franco-Prussian War with France in 1871. In World War I, Germany joined Austria-Hungary, and declared war on France. The war became slow in the west and was fought in "trenches", holes soldiers dug in the ground to protect themselves. Many men were killed on both sides. In the east the soldiers fought normal battles and the Germans won in the east. The war ended in 1918 because the Germans could not win in the west, and Germany's emperor had to give up his power. Germany was put under harsh restrictions, and France took Alsace from Germany. After a revolution, the Second Reich ended and the democratic Weimar Republic began. After the war, there were bad money problems in Germany because of the Peace Treaty of Versailles and the worldwide Great Depression. The "Third Reich" was Nazi Germany; it lasted 12 years, from 1933 to 1945. Adolf Hitler became the Head of government, and by the Enabling Act on March 23, 1933, the parliament gave him total control of the country and the government. On March 23, 1933, the Reichstag passed the Enabling Act, which enabled Hitler's government to issue decrees independently of the Reichstag and the presidency; Hitler in effect assumed dictatorial powers. Hitler sought to unify all Germans in one state, and did this by uniting ethnic lands where Germans lived in Austria, Czechoslovakia with the German Republic. But his actions became radical, aggressive, and arrogant. Hitler started to abuse his power and declared himself "Führer" (dictator). Hitler then started to claim nearby countries to be part of Germany, and took them over, beginning with Poland, and including parts of Russia, and the Baltic states. The invasion of Poland started World War II on September 1, 1939. In the beginning, Germany was winning, and quickly got control of most of Europe and a large part of the Soviet Union. After the decisive Battle of Kursk, the German Eastern Front began a slow retreat until war's end. The reason was because Hitler refused to listen to his generals. On 8 May 1945, Germany gave up after Berlin was captured and Hitler had killed himself a week earlier. Because of the war, Germany lost a lot of German land east of "Oder-Neisse line", and for 45 years, Germany was split into West Germany West- and German Democratic Republic East Germany. After the end of Socialism in Europe in 1990, East Germany joined West Germany. The new Germany is an important part of the European Union, a group of countries that want to bring all of Europe together for reasons of politics, defence, and economy. Politics. Germany is a constitutional federal democracy. Its political rules come from the 1949 'constitution' called "Grundgesetz" (Basic Law). It has a parliamentary system, and the parliament elects the head of government, the "Bundeskanzler" (Federal Chancellor). The current Chancellor, Dr Angela Merkel, is a woman who used to live in East Germany. The people of Germany vote for the parliament, called the "Bundestag" (Federal Assembly), every four years. Government members of the 16 Bundesländer work in the "Bundesrat" (Federal Council). The "Bundesrat" can help make some laws. The head of state is the "Bundespräsident" (Federal President). This person has no real powers but can order elections for the Bundestag. The judiciary branch (the part of German politics that deals with courts) has a "Bundesverfassungsgericht" (Federal Constitutional Court). It can stop all acts by the law-makers or other leaders if they feel they go against Germany's constitution. States. "Main article: States of Germany" In these states there are 438 "Kreise" (districts). Geography. Germany is one of the biggest countries in Europe. It goes from the high mountains of the Alps (highest point: the Zugspitze at in the south, to the North Sea and Baltic Sea in the north. Between the mountains and the sea are the large forests of the middle part of Germany, and the very low and flat parts of northern Germany (lowest point: Neuendorf-Sachsenbande at. Germany also has parts of Europe's biggest and most important rivers, such as the Rhine, Danube and Elbe. Economy. Germany has the world's third largest technologically powerful economy (only the United States and Japan are more powerful). Bringing West and East Germany together and making their economy work is still taking a long time and costing a lot of money; the west gives about $100 billion to the east a year. Germans hope that because of the new form of money, the Euro used in most countries in Europe, and because Europe is coming closer together, this will help Germany's economy in the early 21st century. People. There are at least seven million people from other countries living in Germany. Some have political asylum, some are guest workers ("Gastarbeiter"), and some are their families. A lot of people from poor or dangerous countries go to Germany for safety, but today the number is smaller (about 50,000 in 2003). About 50,000 ethnic Danish people live in Schleswig, in the north. About 60,000 Slavic people, Sorbs, live in Germany too, in Saxony and Brandenburg. About 12,000 people in Germany speak Frisian; this language is the closest living language to English. In northern Germany, people outside towns speak Low Saxon. Many people have come to Germany from Turkey (about 1.9 million Kurds and Turks). Other small groups of people in Germany are Croats (0.2 million), Italians (0.6 million), Greeks (0.4 million), Russians, and Poles (0.3 million). There are also some ethnic Germans who lived in the old Soviet Union (1.7 million), Poland (0.7 million), and Romania (0.3 million) (1980 – 1999 totals). These people have German passports, so they are not counted as foreigners. A lot of these people do not speak German at home. Christianity is the biggest religion; Protestants are 38% of the people (mostly in the north) and Catholics are 34% o.7% of Germans the people (mostly in the south). There are also many Muslims (1), while the other people (26.3%) are either not religious, or belong to smaller religious groups. In the eastern regions, the former territory of GDR (also known as DDR), only one fifth of the population is religious. Germany has one of the world's highest levels of schooling, technology, and businesses. The number of young people who start going to universities is now more than three times as big as it was after the end of World War II, and the trade and technical schools of Germany are some of the best in the world. Germans each make about $25,000 a year, so Germany is a very middle class society. A large social welfare system gives people money when they are ill or cannot find a job, and other things the people need. Millions of Germans travel outside their country each year. Culture. In Germany were born many people important in culture: composers such as Beethoven, Bach, Brahms, and Wagner; poets such as Goethe, Schiller, Heine and Lessing or Brecht; philosophers including Kant, Hegel, Marx, and Nietzsche; and scientists including Einstein, Born, Heisenberg and Planck. It was also where the "Bauhaus" movement started. In the past, when people in Europe could not speak each other's languages, they used German. Today, many people still learn German in school as a foreign language; it is second after English. Many important people in history are thought of as "German", because they are at the heart of German culture, although they did not always live in Germany. Some of these people were Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart, Franz Kafka, Stefan Zweig, and Copernicus. Religion. Roman Catholicism was the biggest religion in Germany up to the 15th century, but a major religious change called the Reformation changed this. In 1517, Martin Luther said that the Catholic church was greedy and that it used religion to make money. Because of what he said, European and world history changed, and Luther started Protestantism, which is equally big then the Catholic religion in Germany today. The current Pope, Benedict XVI, was born in Germany. Before World War II, about 2/3 of the German people were Protestant and 1/3 were Roman Catholic. In the north and northeast of Germany, there were a lot more Protestants than Catholics. About one percent were German Jews. Germany's constitution says that all people can believe in any religion they want to, and that no one is allowed to step on another person's rights because of the person's religion. Today, Germany has the fastest-growing group of Jewish people in the world. Many of them are in Berlin. Ten thousand Jews have moved to Germany since the fall of the Berlin Wall; many came from countries that were in the Soviet Union. Schools teaching about the horrible things that happened when the Nazis were in power, as well as teaching against the ideas of the Nazis, has helped to make Germany very tolerant towards other people and cultures, and now many people move there from countries that may not be so tolerant. Today, about 2/3 of the German people (more than 55 million people) belong to a Christian church, but most of them take no part in church life. About half of them are Protestants and about half are Roman Catholics. Most German Protestants are members of the Evangelical Church in Germany. About three million Muslims live in Germany. References. Countries of the world  |  Europe  |  Council of Europe  
Sky	The sky is what we call the appearance of a hemisphere over our heads. On a clear day it appears blue. The deepness of the blue increases as we move from the horizon to the point above our head. The sky is blue because of Raleigh scattering. Raleigh scattering defines the amount of scattering of light rays. Since all colors of the rainbow create a white light we should see a white sky, but blue light scatters much more than red. That is why the sky appears blue (on a cloudless day). On a cloudy day, it appears to be grey.  
Tone language	In a tone language (tonal language), different tones (like in music, but not as many) will change the meaning of the words, even if the pronunciation of the word is the same otherwise. English and almost all other European languages are not tone languages at all. Many East Asian languages are tone languages, such as all the Chinese languages, Vietnamese, a small number of Korean dialects. In some languages, pitch accent is important. That means a word's meaning could be different, depending on which syllable is stressed. Examples include Swedish, Norwegian, Serbo-Croatian and Lithuanian. Japanese has a similar system. An example of tone language: in Mandarin, "ma ma ma ma" (麻媽罵馬) mean four different things. If we include numbers that mean the tones, it can be written like "ma2 ma1 ma4 ma3", which means "the hemp's mother scolds the horse." Some Romanizations write each tone with a different spelling, so "ma2 ma1 ma4 ma3" would be "ma mha mah maa" in Gwoyeu Romatzyh Romanization. Most use numbers or accent marks ("mā má mǎ mà" in Pinyin). Some tones may sound alike to people who do not speak a tone language and are easy to forget. So tone is the most difficult part of learning a tone language for many people.  
Dollar	A dollar is a type of currency. Many countries have named their money "the dollar", so in an encyclopaedia article it is important to say which country the dollar is from that is being talked about, for example, the United States dollar or the Canadian dollar. The symbol for the dollar is a capital letter S, pierced by one or two vertical lines: $. The dollar is named after the thaler. The thaler was large silver coin first made in the year 1518. The thaler named after the Joachimsthal (Joachim's valley) mine located in Bohemia ("Tal" means valley in German).  
Beer	Beer is an alcoholic drink. It is made (brewed) with water, hops, barley (types of cereal grains), and yeast (a fungus that produces alcohol). Beer is made when the yeast 'eats' sugar taken from the barley and turns it into alcohol and carbon dioxide. Beer is made by adding warm water to malted barley and other grains. The enzymes in the barley change the malted barley and other grains into simple sugars. This is called the mash. The water is then sparged (drained) from the grain. The water is now called wort. The wort is boiled and hops are added. Hops provide flavour and preserve the beer. After boiling the wort is cooled and yeast is added. The yeast turns the sugars into alcohol and the wort into beer. The earliest records of beer were written around 7000 years ago by the Sumerians. It is said that the Sumerians discovered the fermentation process by accident. It is not known exactly how this happened, but it could be that a piece of bread or grain became wet, and a short time later, it began to ferment and made a pulp that causes drunkenness. A seal around 4,000 years old is a Sumerian "Hymn to Ninkasi", the goddess of brewing. This "hymn" is also a recipe for making beer. A description of the making of beer on this ancient engraving in the Sumerian language is the earliest account of what is easily recognised as barley, followed by a pictograph of bread being baked, crumbled into water to form a mash, and then made into a drink, that is recorded as having made people feel "...wonderful and blissful". It could even be possible that bread was first baked to be a way to make beer that is easy to carry around. The Sumerians were probably the first people to brew beer. They had found a "divine drink" -- they felt it was a gift from the gods. Different beers can have different natures, depending on the ingredients used; for example, an ale uses top fermenting yeast. Top fermenting yeasts eat more sugar and produce more alcohol. A lager uses bottom fermenting yeast. Bottom fermenting yeasts eat less sugar and produce a crisper, cleaner taste. Adding hops makes the beer more bitter and aromatic. Specialty malts (different types of cooked barley) produce different flavours and colours. These flavours and colours are most notable in dark beers like Porter and Stout. Different countries have different ways to make beer. In Germany, Austria,Switzerland, Czech Republic, and Slovakia, beer is usually made from just hops, malt, water, and yeast. This is because of the Reinheitsgebot. The Reinheitsgebot says that beer can only be made from hops, malt, and water. Yeast was discovered after the Reinheitsgebot. In Belgium, however, beers are also made with sugar, fruit, and other ingredients. Amount of alcohol in beer. "Normal" beers have around 4-6 % alcohol (for the volume, ie. in 100ml beer there is 4-6ml alcohol). In brewing beer, the amount of alcohol can be made more or less quite easily. The Belgian types of beer are made by adding more sugar. Through the fermentation, this will then turn to alcohol. Today, there are beers with between 2% and about 16% of alcohol (about the same alcohol content as wine). Some beer labels say there is no alcohol in them because it was taken out later. This is not completely true, though. Beers "without alcohol" usually do have less than 1% of alcohol.  
Eurasia	Eurasia is a continent in the northern part of the Earth. Eurasia is made of Europe and Asia, which are on the same tectonic plate and do not have a sea between them, so they are scientifically one continent. The word is made by adding "Eur" (from "Eur"ope) to "Asia" to make "Eurasia". Some geographers say it's all just one continent, because unlike the Americas or Africa, Europe and Asia are not divided by sea. The Ancient Greeks divided the world they knew into Europe, Asia and Africa. Since then, people have been talking about Asia and Europe as two continents so it is now a tradition. Some other continents are not completely divided by sea and are joined together and by a thin strip of land (called an isthmus) like North America and South America. However, Europe and Asia are not divided by sea at all. Sometimes Eurasia is divided into West Eurasia and East Eurasia. West Eurasia is Europe and the Middle East. Historians sometimes add North Africa to West Eurasia because the Sahara Desert divides North Africa from the other parts of Africa and it is as difficult to cross as a sea.  
The Americas	The Americas is a term used to refer to the American supercontinent: the continents of North America, South America, and the isthmus of Central America. The Americas are located in the Western Hemisphere and cover 8.3% of the earth's surface. Notice because this is a plural noun, "the" needs to be used in a complete sentence. The word American is usually used to mean a person or a thing from the United States of America. People and things from any country in any of the Americas -- North America, Central America, or South America -- are sometimes called "American" or Panamerican.  
North Pole	The North Pole is the northern point of the axis around which the Earth turns. It is located in the Arctic Ocean which receives very little heat from the sun. This means that the Ocean around the pole is always very cold and it is covered by a thick sheet of ice. There is also a Magnetic North Pole. It is near the above North Pole. A compass points toward the magnetic North Pole. There is a star, called the North Star or the Pole Star, that always appears in the sky above the North Pole. For hundreds of years sailors were able to tell how far north they were by seeing how high the North Star appeared in the sky. Polar bears live in the Arctic. They are animals that eat meat, so they need to hunt to remain lively. The bears, in a general way, usually are violent to protect themselves and their cubs.  
Plural	Plural is a form of the noun that shows that there are more than one. The opposite of the plural is the singular, which means there is only one. In some languages a suffix (word ending) is added to a word to show that the word means many. For example, English usually uses "-s" to mark the plural. For example, "cat" is singular, but "cats" is plural. These different numbers will have different suffixes from the plural suffix. Some languages do not have plural endings at all. Some of these are the East Asian languages of Chinese, Korean, and Japanese. So native speakers of these languages can easily forget to use plural.  
Alexander Gode	Alexander Gottfried Friedrich Gode-von-Aesch or simply Alexander Gode (October 30, 1906 - August 10, 1970) a German-American linguist and translator. He was the founder of Interlingua.  
Oceania	Oceania is a name used in geography for the continent made up by Australia, New Zealand, New Guinea, and several other island nations in the surrounding area. Some people call this part of the world Australasia instead. Sometimes, people use the name Oceania to include only the Polynesian and Melanesian islands in the Pacific Ocean, as separate from "Australasia".  
Southern Ocean	The Southern Ocean is a rather new term in geography. It means the waters of the Atlantic, Pacific, and Indian Oceans around the continent of Antarctica out to sixty degrees south latitude. Some people call this ocean the Antarctic Ocean. The total area is 20,327,000 km², and the coastline length is 17,968 km.  
Catalan language	The Catalan language is a Romance language spoken in Catalonia, Valencia, east of Aragon, Balearic Islands (all of them in Spain), Andorra, North Catalonia (in France) and in the Italian city of L'Alguer. The language nearest to Catalan is Occitan. It is also very similar to Spanish and Italian. About 10 million people speak Catalan.  
Australasia	Australasia was the name of the joint team of Australia and New Zealand in the 1908 London and 1912 Stockholm Olympic Games. Some people call all of Oceania Australasia.  
Corset	A corset is a body covering undergarment (clothes worn under others). It is made in many forms.  
Pop music	Pop music is shorter way of writing "popular music". Pop music is commonly defined as music most listened to, purchased, nominated for special events. Styles of pop music in the 2000s (today) include rock music, hip hop, and pop punk. What is pop music? The singers and bands that play pop music on stage at music concerts or in music videos are an important part of pop music. The singers sing the lyrics (words) of the songs and dance on stage. The musicians in the bands play musical instruments such as electric guitar, electric bass guitar, synthesizer keyboards, piano, and drums. How does the business of pop music work? There are also many more people working on pop music who are not seen on the stage or in the video. These people include the studio staff (people who help the musicians to record CDs and music videos in music studios), production staff (people who help make the music recordings sound good), distribution staff (people who help sell the music to stores) and retail staff (people that sell the music to people at CD stores). Tour staff help the band to travel around the country (or around the world) for their concert tours. Some tour staff help by carrying heavy musical instruments onto the stage. Other tour staff drive buses or cars, so that the band can get to the concert. Some tour staff operate sound equipment, such as the large amplifiers and loudspeakers that are used to amplify (make louder) the band's music for the audience. Promotional staff help to market or promote the band's music, so that more people will know about the band, and buy the band's CDs. Some promotional staff travel to radio stations and give the band's CD to radio station managers or DJs (disk jockeys: the people who announce songs on the radio). Other promotional staff write press releases (short articles) about the band which are sent to newspapers. Types of music that became pop music. Pop music came from the Rock and Roll movement of the early 1950s, when record companies recorded songs that they thought that teenagers would like. Pop music usually uses musical styles from the other types of music that are popular at the time. Many different styles of music have become pop music during different time periods. Often, music companies create pop music styles by taking a style of music that only a small number of people were listening to, and then making that music more popular by marketing it to teenagers and young adults. In the 1950s, recording companies took blues-influenced rock and roll (for example Chuck Berry and Bo Diddley) and rockabilly (for example Carl Perkins and Buddy Holly) and promoted them as pop music. In the late 1960s and early 1970s, record companies took folk music bands and musicians and helped them to create a new type of music called folk rock or acid rock. Folk rock and acid rock mixed folk music, blues and rock and roll (for example The Byrds and Janis Joplin). In the 1970s, record companies created several harder, louder type of blues called blues rock or heavy metal, which became a type of pop music (for example the bands Led Zeppelin and Judas Priest). In the late 1970s and early 1980s, a type of nightclub dance music called Disco turned into a popular type of pop music. Record companies took an experimental, strange-sounding type of music called New Wave music from the 1980s and turned it into pop music bands such as "The Cars." In the 1990s record companies took an underground type of hard rock called Grunge (for example the band Nirvana). Controversy: Do pop bands "Sell out" their values? Thousands of new pop bands are formed each year around the world. Each band tries to write songs and music that will become a popular new music trend. Record companies promote these bands and songs by sending the songs to radio stations and by making videos of the band. Some music fans say that the bands or musicians who write music that becomes popular (pop music) have "sold out" (betrayed) the values (beliefs) of their original fans. In the 1960s, some people who liked folk music said that folk rock musicians had "sold out" the values (beliefs) of traditional folk music, because folk rock bands made a lot of money and were controlled by huge recording companies. In the 1990s, some punk rock bands began playing pop punk, which is punk rock mixed with pop music. Some people who like punk rock say that pop punk bands have sold out (betrayed) the rebellious values (beliefs) and political beliefs of punk rock. The Reigning King and Queen of Pop are: Michael Jackson and Madonna, respectively.  
General semantics	General semantics is a philosophy that deals with how people react to things that happen around them based on meaning. It was created by Alfred Korzybski during the 1920s and early 1930s. The goal of General semantics is for people to know that when we simplify something, either mentally or in language, that simplification is not the same thing as the thing simplified. How people understand reality is not the same as what reality is because people do not know everything about reality. General semantics teaches that there is always more to something than what is seen, heard, felt, or believed.  
Semiotics	Semiotics (or semiology) is a theoretical framework for the study of the meaning of language, signs and symbols. It was first developed in the early 20th century, separately, by the Swiss Ferdinand Saussure and Charles Sanders Pierce of the U.S.A.  
Nitrogen	Nitrogen is a nonmetal chemical element. It has the chemical symbol N and atomic number 7. Its stable nuclei typically contains 14 nucleons (7 protons and 7 neutrons). It has 5 electrons in its outermost shell. Air is made up of about 78% nitrogen and about 22% oxygen. Nitrogen is not poisonous. We can safely breathe it when it is a part of air, but we cannot breathe pure nitrogen by itself, because it does not have the oxygen that we need to live. Nitrogen is formally considered to have been discovered by Daniel Rutherford in 1772, who called it "noxious gas" or "fixed gas". Nitrogen Oxide is a typical medical use for nitrogen, also known as "laughing gas" it gives the effect of feeling "high", or "pain-free".  
Association football	Association football is a sport played between two teams. Globally it is usually called football, but in some countries, such as the United States and Canada, it is called soccer. In Japan, New Zealand, South Africa, Australia and Republic of Ireland, both words are commonly used. In each team there are 11 players. 10 of them play on the field and one is the goalkeeper. The game is played by kicking a ball into the opponent's goal. A match has 90 minutes play, with a break of about 15 minutes in the middle. Competitions. There are many competitions for football, for both football clubs and countries. Football clubs usually play other teams in their own country, with a few exceptions. Cardiff City F.C. from Wales for example, play in the English leagues and in the English FA Cup. Groups such as UEFA and FIFA organise international competitions between clubs and countries. Clubs play in competitions such as UEFA Champions League or UEFA Cup, and countries play for the World Cup or a continental trophy such as the European Championship. The FIFA World Cup takes place every four years between national teams, and is the world's most popular sporting event, even more popular than the Olympic Games. In football, a championship is usually called a "Cup". For example, the FIFA World Cup or the FA Cup. Who plays football. Football is the world's most popular sport. It is played in more countries than any other game. In fact, FIFA (the Federation Internationale de Football Association) has more members than the United Nations. It is played by both males and females, but more commonly by males. In Europe, the main competitions to compete to be the best in Europe are the Champions League for the top teams from the top leagues in each country in Europe. Then there is the UEFA cup which is the next best teams from eaches of the top leagues competing. The most successful club in the world is Rangers F.C. from Scotland, having won more major titles than any other team in the world. They have won the country's league 51 times, a world record.  
Spamming	"This is about unwanted email. You may be looking for the food." Spamming is when one person or company sends an unwanted email to another person. Spam emails are the computer version of unwanted "junk mail" that arrives in a mailbox, such as advertising pamphlets and brochures. Spam emails are usually sent to try to get the person to buy something or do something else that will cause gain for the sender. Names. The emails sent when someone is spamming is called spam. The person or company who sent the unwanted email is called a spammer. Uses. Spam emails are often sent to many people at once trying to get them to buy a product or sign up for a service. The people who receive the email did not ask to receive the email, and do not want to receive it. One of the reasons there is so much spam emails around is that it costs very little to send millions of spam messages at once. Spam messages can easily be sent, sometimes even by a special computer program. How spammers find email addresses. The hardest part about spamming is to get the email addresses to send the spam to. Sometimes the spammers do this by searching for emails on the internet, or by buying emails from people who know a lot of them (for example, someone who runs a site that makes users tell them their email address to signup will have a lot of email addresses to sell to spammers). Method one. If the person clicks on the link, it tells the spammers that there is someone at the address. Then the spammers put that person on a list of people who actually read spam messages. Next, the spammers and sell that list to other spammers. The same thing happens if the person sends another email back to the spammer (called "replying"), which also tells the spammer the message has been read. Method two. Another trick that spammers use is to put a picture — even one that cannot be seen — into a spam message. The picture will have a name that goes with just that one email. When the email is opened, a request will be sent to the server that has that picture to get the image. If they get this request, then they know that you read their email, which could cause a person to receive even more spam email. Other meanings. The word "spamming" is also used to describe the act of typing a lot of words or text in Internet chatrooms, so that other people using the chatroom cannot carry on conversations. Spamming in Internet chatrooms is usually considered to be rude. Problems with spam. Computer users at home and in workplaces waste a lot of time opening and deleting spam messages. In some cases, spam emails contain viruses or links to pornography or illegal gambling websites. Spam emails often advertise products or services which are being lied about by the companies sending the spam, such as frauds or scams.  
Earthquake	In an earthquake the ground moves. Earthquakes commonly last for a few seconds. There are big earthquakes and small earthquakes. Big earthquakes can damage buildings and hurt people. When the earth moves in an earthquake, it can cause waves in the ocean. A big wave in the ocean caused by an earthquake is called a "tsunami". A tsunami can also hurt people and damage buildings. Earthquake Measuring. The size of an earthquake can be measured. A number is given to an earthquake that shows the size of the earthquake. Methods for turning the size of an earthquake into a number include the Richter scale and the Modified Mercalli scale. Cause of earthquakes. The surface of the Earth is divided into pieces called "tectonic plates". These plates move. When the plates rub against each other, they do not move smoothly. When the plates do not move smoothly, earthquakes result. Some parts of the world get more earthquakes than other parts. The parts of the earth that get most earthquakes are near the edges of these plates. Earthquakes send sound waves through the earth. Places many kilometers from the edge of the plates can receive these earthquake waves. Earthquake-proofing. Some countries, such as Japan or parts of a country like California in the United States, have a lot of earthquakes. In these places it is a good practice to build houses and other buildings so they will not collapse when there is an earthquake. This is called seismic design or "earthquake-proofing". For many years earthquakes have occurred. That is why there are earthquake proof buildings. The ability of a building to withstand the stress of an earthquake depends upon its type of construction, shape, mass distribution, and rigidity. Different combinations are used. Different shapes of buildings such as square, rectangular, and shell buildings can withstand earthquakes much better than skyscrapers. To reduce stress, a building's ground floor can be supported by extremely rigid, hollow columns, while the rest of the building is supported by flexible columns located inside the hollow columns. A different method is to use rollers or rubber pads to separate the base columns from the ground, allowing the columns to shake parallel during an earthquake. To help prevent a roof from collapsing you can make your roof out of light-weight materials. Outdoor walls can be made with stronger and more reinforced materials such as steel or reinforced concrete. During an earthquake flexible windows may help that can hold the windows together so they don’t break.  
Scurvy	Scurvy is a disease. It is caused by not eating enough Vitamin C. People who have scurvy get spots on their skin, especially the legs. Their teeth may become loose and fall out. They may bleed from the mouth, nose, and gums (mucous membranes). A person with scurvy will look pale. They will feel sad (see depression). They will not be able to move easily, because their joints hurt. Historically, sailors used to get scurvy because fresh fruit could not be kept for as long as they were at sea. Today it is uncommon in the wealthy countries. Vitamin C administered by mouth or by needle (injection, also known as a shot). The injection almost always cures scurvy in babies. Drinking orange juice is another treatment and works in babies. Before Vitamin C was discovered this was the only treatment. When a person gets help for scurvy, they usually get better very quickly. Babies start eating again after one or two days of help. The symptoms get better within seven days.  
Ion	In chemistry, a molecule or atom that is electrically charged is called an ion. It is called this because it has a different amount of electrons than it usually has. The process adding or subtracting electrons is called ionization. Many ions are colourless. Elements in the main groups in the Periodic Table form colourless ions. Some ions are coloured. The transition metal usually form coloured ions. In physics, atomic nuclei that have been completely ionized are called "charged particles". These are ones in alpha radiation. Ionization happens by applying high energy to atoms. This is done using electrical voltage or by high-energy radiation. An ionized gas is called plasma. A simple ion is formed from a single atom. Polyatomic ions are formed from a group of atoms. Polyatomic ions usually consist of all non-metals atoms, but sometimes the polyatomic ion can have a metallic atom too. Positive ions are called cations'". They are attracted to cathodes (negatively charged electrodes). ("Cation" is pronounced "cat eye on", not "kay shun".) All simple metal ions are cations. Negative ions are called anions. They are attracted to anodes (positively charged electrodes). All simple non-metal ions (except H+, which is a proton) are anions (except NH4+). Transition metals can form more than one simple cation with different charges. Most ions have a charge of less than 4, but some can have higher charges. Michael Faraday was the first person to write a theory about ions. He did this in 1830. In his theory, he said what the portions of molecules were like that moved to anions or cations. Svante August Arrhenius said how this happened. He wrote this in his doctoral dissertation in 1884. Arrhenius was studying at the University of Uppsala. The university did not accept his theory at first (he only just passed his degree). But in 1903, he won the Nobel Prize in Chemistry in 1903 for the same idea. In Greek "ion" is like the word "go". "Anion" and "cation" mean "up-goer" and "down-goer". "Anode" and "cathode" are "way up" and "way down". Other meanings. In Greek mythology, Ion was a son of Xuthus and Creusa. He founded the Ionian race and became a king of Athens. The term is also used for an element of the Plato texts, and a Window manager.  
Cognitive science	Cognitive science studies how people make their ideas and what makes thoughts logical.  
Anthropology	Anthropology is the study of human beings. (In Greek "Anthropos-" means "human", and "-logy" means "study of"). Anthropology is a biological and historical social science that helps us learn how groups of people are the same, and how they are different in all parts of the world. Anthropologists do research in many places and study how people live now and how they may have lived in the past (using the study of Archaeology). They research in modern cities, small villages, tribes, and in the countryside. They study how groups of people consider time, space, life, etc.  
Defense	Defense or defence is protecting something from attack. Military. A country's government may form an army, a navy, and/or an air force to protect the country and its people from attacks. The army, navy, and air force can also be used to attack other countries. A country can also use the military to kill or arrest people, or members of groups, from other countries who have hurt or killed their own citizens. In these groups, people are specially trained to use weapons such as rifles and artillery, that can be used to kill other soldiers and destroy their equipment. Together, these groups form a country's military. Some governments, like the United States' government, spend large amounts of money every year to buy and keep weapons and to pay people to defend their countries. These trained people are called soldiers. A country's armed forces can also be used for non-military jobs, such as delivering food aid to hungry people, filling sandbags during a flood, bringing doctors and nurses to poor people in foreign countries to help them when they're sick, or helping put out forest fires. Sometimes, when a country's army is doing a lot of work in different places, and there are not enough soldiers to do more work, a country can hire civilians who are not members of the military to do some of the army's jobs, like protecting buildings, important people, and groups of trucks travelling from one place to another. This lets the country to use their military for other jobs. Usually, these people hired by a country this way used to be members of the military before leaving and working for other people, companies and countries. Law. In legal matters, the defense is the person or people who are charged with a crime in a court case, along with their lawyer. The arguments and evidence that they provide to prove they did not commit the crime is also called their defense.  
Education	Education is teaching and learning skills and knowledge. Education also means helping people to learn how to do things and encouraging them to think about what they learn. It is also important for educators to teach ways to find and use information. Through education, the knowledge of a society, country, and of the world is passed on from generation to generation. In democracies, through education, children and adults are supposed to learn how to be active and effective citizens. Types of education. It is part of the job of an educator, an instructor, teacher, or tutor to create a place for learning. There are many different kinds of education. Formal education. Formal education is usually in school, where a person may learn basic, academic, or trade skills. Formal education begins in elementary school and continues with secondary school. Post-secondary education (or higher education) is usually at a college or university.) Nonformal education. Nonformal education is sometimes called adult basic education, adult literacy education or school equivalency preparation. In nonformal education an adult (or a youth who is not in school) can learn literacy, other basic skills or job skills. Nonformal education can be in small classes or through self study. Informal education. There is also informal education. For example, a parent teaches a child how to prepare a meal. Someone can also get an informal education by reading many books from a library. Informal education is when you are not studying in a school and don't use another particular learning method. Public schooling. Public schools provide a free education through the government. Parents are free to let their children receive a private education, but they must pay for it. In some poorer places, some children cannot go to school, because their countries do not make education available, because their families do not have enough money, or because the children have to work.  
Army	The army is the part of a country's military that fights on the ground. People in the army are called soldiers. Many modern armies have vehicles such as tanks, airplanes, and helicopters to help soldiers fight on the ground. A soldier may be a volunteer (someone who joins something by himself), or he may be drafted (forced by the government to join the army). Forcing men to join the army is called "conscription" or "draft". Voluntary armies tend to be small by numbers, but high in morale and quality. Drafted armies are large, but often lacking in morale and in quality: it may be very difficult to force someone to risk his life against his will. Often drafted armies use death penalty to ensure the soldiers will fight. A soldier does many things, from shooting enemies, to using binoculars to find out where enemies are. They are used to defend their country, or attack another country's army. It is difficult, and a soldier must be in good shape, both physically and mentally. They almost always move together, and that way the team can do more things, in a safer way. They may be assigned to certain places to guard, or they may be told to search a place, or even attack it. That is up to their commander. Every soldier answers to someone else, so that way, everything is organized. Gear. A soldier is supplied with weapons, such as guns, knives, and other simple gear for surviving in the battlefield, such as food, water, clothes, and tents. They must keep good care of the items. American military. Before a soldier joins the army, he must qualify to be in it first. The person is put through tests, so that the army will know if the recruit can do it or not. This is sometimes called 'boot camp'. He must complete mental tests, and physical tests. It depends on where he is testing that will tell him how hard it will be. He will also take tests to determine what job he will do in the military. For instance, he may work with computers or be a cook for the soldiers, or he may be very good with a rifle and be a sniper.  
Teaching	To teach is to help students to learn new knowledge or skills. To teach someone is to help him or her learn from explanations or experiments. Professors and teachers teach: it is their work (or "job"). Parents also teach their children, but parents also do many other things with their children. People have different ideas about the aim of teaching. Some people want to teach so the learner can learn things that make them happy, for example to learn how to do a job they like. Other people think learners should learn something useful for their family, relatives, or community. Some people think teachers should teach people how to obey God. There are many different places where teaching happens. Some people teach very young children in schools called elementary schools. Others teach older children in middle, junior high, and high schools. Some teachers teach adults in colleges, or universities.  
Theology	Theology is the study of one or more religions. Theology may be studied for many reasons. Some study theology to better understand their own religion, while others study theology so that they can compare religions. The word ‘theology’ was first used to describe the study of the Christian God, but some now use it to describe the study of religion generally, but not everyone agrees that it is right to do so. Some people use the words 'comparative theology' when they want to mean discussing the theology of more than one religion at once.  
Work	When used in a sentence as an action, work means doing something that requires labor. When used in a sentence as an object, work means something that remains to be done. A worker is any person that does work, often in exchange for money or helpful services (these workers that receive money or helpful services are said to be "holding a job"). In science, an equation for the total amount of work produced from a force is Work = force x distance. The phrase "work ethic" is used to explain how hard a person works, and what his or her attitude towards work is.  
Romania	Romania (dated: Rumania, Roumania;,) is a country that can be found in the south-eastern part of Central Europe. It is found to the north of the Balkan Peninsula, on the Lower Danube. It is also within and outside the Carpathian arch, and is bordering the Black Sea. Most of the Danube Delta is found inside Romania. It shares a border with Hungary and Serbia to the west, Ukraine and the Republic of Moldova to the northeast, and Bulgaria to the south. Romania is a semi-presidential unitary state. Romania was made by the joining of Moldavia and Wallachia in 1859. It was given its independence in the 1878. At the end of World War II, some of its territories (around what is now known as Moldova) was occupied by the USSR. After the Iron Curtain fell in 1989, Romania started political and economical reforms that let Romania join the European Union on 1 January 2007. Romania has the 9th biggest territory and the 7th biggest population (with 22 million people) of the European Union member states. The capital and biggest city in Romania is Bucharest (), with a population of 1.9 million people. One of the cities in Transylvania, Sibiu, was named a European Capital of Culture. Romania also joined NATO on March 29, 2004. Origin. "Romania" ("Rumania" or "România") comes from the Romanian word "Român", which comes from the Latin word "Romanus" ("Roman"). English sources still used the word Rumania during World War II. This comes from the French word "Roumania". This is the last known mention. Prehistory and Antiquity. The oldest human remains to have been found in Europe were found in Romania. They were about 42,000 years old. Being that they are Europe's oldest human remains, this may have been when the first people came to Europe. The first written proof of people living in what is now Romania comes from Herodotus in the fourth book of his Histories (Herodotus). The book was written in about 440 BCE. He wrote that the Getae were defeated by the Persian Emperor Darius the Great when he was battling the Scythians. Dacians, who were mostly thought of as a part of the Getae, were part of the Thracians who were living in Dacia (which is where Romania, Moldova and the northern part of Bulgaria are). The Roman Empire first noticed Dacia when they attacked the Roman province, which was bordered by the Danube, in 87 AD. This was during Emperor Domitian's rule. In time, the Dacians were finished by the Roman Empire under Emperor Trajan in two battles that lasted from 101 AD until 106 AD. After the Dacians were defeated, the Roman Empire turned Dacia into the province of Roman Dacia. A lot of very good ore deposits were found in Roman Dacia. There was a lot of gold and silver found in Roman Dacia, and a large portion of gold and silver were found in the Western Carpathians. Trajan brought home 165 tons of gold and 330 tons of silver when he returned home after his conquest. The Romans had a lot of people living in the colony of Roman Dacia, and brought with them Vulgar Latin, which they started to put a lot of effort into romanization. This was to become the first version of Romanian. In the 3rd century, several new kinds of people that moved around a lot made the Roman Empire leave Dacia near 271 AD. This became the Roman Empire's first abandoned province. The origin of modern Romanians is widely debated by historians to this day. It is thought that the Romanians were formed from big ethnic groups that came from both the south and north of the Danube. Middle Ages. In 271 or 275 AD, the Goths took over the abandoned Roman province. They lived in Dacia until the 4th century, when another group of wandering peoples, the Huns, came to Dacia. The Gepids, and the Avars with the Slavic people, was in control of Transylvania through the 8th century. In the 8th century, however, it was overrun by Bulgarians, where it was made part of the First Bulgarian Empire, which ended Romania's Dark Ages. The Bulgarians held Transylvania until the 11th century. The Pechenegs, the Cumans, and the Uzes were a few of the people later noted in the history of Romania. In 1310, Basarab I started the Romanian principalities of Wallachia in what were called the High Middle Ages and Moldavia by Dragoş around 1352. During the Middle Ages, Romanians were living in three different areas: Wallachia (Romanian: "Ţara Românească"—"Romanian Land"), Moldavia (Romanian: "Moldova") and Transylvania. Transylvania belonged to the Kingdom of Hungary from around the 10th century until the 16th century, when it turned into the Principality of Transylvania. The Principality of Transylvania lasted until 1711. Wallachia has always been on the border of the Ottoman Empire since the 14th century. As the Ottoman Empire's influence grew, it gradually fell under the suzerainty of the Ottoman Empire in the 15th century. The best known ruler of this period was Vlad III the Impaler (also known as Vlad Dracula or ',), Prince of Wallachia during the years of 1448, 1456–62, and 1476. While he was the leader of his people, he had a pact with the Ottoman Empire to stay independent. Many people in Romania during this time thought of him as a ruler with a great sense of justice and defense for his country. Moldavia was seeing its' best of times when Stephen the Great was ruling Moldavia between 1457 and 1504. He was a very good leader of the military (He won 47 battles, and lost 2)). After every battle he won, Stephen would build a church. Because he won 47 of the battles that he fought, he ended up building 48 churches. After Stephen the Great's death, Moldavia became under the suzerainty of the Ottoman Empire during the 16th century. Independence and monarchy. When the Austro-Hungarian Empire was in control of Transylvania, and the Ottoman Empire was in control of Wallachia and Moldavia, almost all of the Romanians were second-class citizens or non-citizens. They stayed this way even when they made up most of the people in those areas. In 1848, the 1848 Revolution did not succeed, and the Great Powers did not like the idea of Romania becoming an independent nation. The people who chose who was elected in 1859 in Moldavia and Wallachia picked the same person – Alexandru Ioan Cuza – as the prince in those areas. This made Romania into a personal union, which happens when the same person rules two different areas. The personal union did not include Transylvania, because most of the people that were living there in the upper class were still Hungarian. In 1866, a "coup d'état" resulted in Cuza being exiled or not allowed into that part of the country. Prince Karl of Hohenzollern-Sigmaringen became the prince after the exile, and was later called Prince Carol of Romania. While the Russo-Turkish War was happening, Romania battled on the Russian side. When the 1878 Treaty of Berlin, was signed, it made Romania an independent state by the Great Powers. However, they had to give Russia three of their southern districts of of Bessarabia. In 1881, the principality became a kingdom with Prince Carol ruling as its' King Carol I. World War I. During August of the year 1914, when World War I started, Romania said it was a neutral country. In 1916, after pressure from the Allies, Romania joined the Allies. Romania then started a war with Austria-Hungary. The Romanian military campaign was really bad for Romania. The Central Powers took over most of the country. Much of the Romanian army were either captured or killed over four months. Moldova was one of the only parts of Romania that was not captured when it stopped its' attackers in 1917. By the time World War I was over, Austria-Hungary and the Russian Empire had fallen apart. This event allowed Bessarabia, Bukovina and Transylvania to become part of the Kingdom of Romania again in 1918. After the Treaty of Trianon was signed in 1920, Hungary, as agreed, gave up the claims of the Austro-Hungarian Monarchy over Transylvania. Romania and Bukovina were joined together in 1919 as a result of the Treaty of Saint Germain. Bessarabia joined with Romania in 1920 when the Treaty of Paris was signed. Greater Romania. The words România Mare (which means "Great Romania" when translated directly from the Romanian language, but usually is translated as "Greater Romania") is what people called Romania during the time between wars. They called Romania România Mare because Romania was in control of (almost 300,000 square kilometers) of land. This was the most land that Romania was ever in control of. World War II. In World War II, Romania called itself neutral. However, on 28 June 1940, a Soviet ultimatum said that they would invade Romania if they didn't join the Axis. Because of the pressure from Moscow and Berlin, they left Bessarabia and Northern Bukovina to avoid war. This, along with other events, made Romania think about joining the Axis powers. As a result, Bulgaria was given the southern part of Dobruja while Hungary was given Northern Transylvania. This loss of land caused King Carol II, the king of Romania at the time, to abdicate the throne in 1940. The National Legionary State then came into power. Power without the National Legionary State was shared by Ion Antonescu and the Iron Guard. Ion Antonescu then defeated the Iron Guard and a year later, Romania joined the war on the Axis Power's side. Over the course of World War II, Romania was the source for most of the oil of Nazi Germany. This caused many bombing raids (where airplanes attempted to drop bombs on important places) by the Allies. Ion Antonescu's rule played a big part in the Halocaust. During August of the year 1944, Antonescu lost power and was arrested by King Michael I of Romania. As a result of this, Romania changed sides and joined the Allies. However, even though they helped to defeat Nazi Germany, they were not noted in the Paris Peace Conference of 1947. People of the Red Army stayed in the country and Communists got most of the votes using some forms of cheating. This included tampering with the votes and killing other party members that didn't agree with them. This gave them control of the country. By the end of the war, 300,000 people in the Romanian Army were killed. Romania and communism. King Michael I was abdicated and had the leave Romania in 1947 because of the Communists. Romania was then called a republic. The USSR kept control of Romania until late in the 1950s, when the Soviet troops agreed to leave Romania. During this time, resources in Romania dropped a lot because of agreements made by the communists. After the Soviet troops left Romania, Nicolae Ceauşescu wanted Romania to become independent. Because of this, Romania started following independent policies like opening talks with Israel after the Six-Day War in 1967 and starting relations with the Federal Republic of Germany.. Romania also started to make friends with the Arab countries. By being friends with the Arab countries, Romania was allowed take part in peace talks between Israel and Egypt and between Israel and the PLO. These caused the amount of money that Romania owed to other countries to go up from 3 billion dollars to nearly 10 billion dollars between the years of 1977 and 1981. The amount of debt that Romania owed other countries caused them to rely on banks and other such companies from around the world. This fought with Nicolae Ceauşescu's autarchic ways and caused him to want to give back all the money that they got from the companies. This caused Romanians to become poor and took out the economy. These events caused Ceauşescu to be taken out of power and killed in the Romanian Revolution of 1989. 1989 to present day. In 1989, the National Salvation Front came into power. It was led by Ion Iliescu. When they came into power, several other parties from before the war were born again. These included the Christian-Democratic National Peasants' Party, the National Liberal Party and the Romanian Social Democrat Party. During April of the year 1990, As a result of several rallies, protests started. The people who protested did not recognize the results of the election. This was because they thought that members of the National Salvation Front were Communists. More and more people protested, and it became a demonstration, or a big protest. These were called Golaniad. After a time, the demonstration turned violent. When the Front lost power, several other parties came into being. These included the Social Democratic Party, the Democratic Party, as well as some other pre-war parties. The Social Democratic Party ruled Romania from 1990 until the year 1996. Ion Iliescu was the head of state, or person in charge. After the year 1996, several other parties came into power and lost it. In 2004, Traian Băsescu was elected president. After the Cold War, Romania became closer friends with Western Europe. In 2004, Romania joined NATO and hosted the 2008 summit. The country applied in June 1993 for membership in the European Union and became an Associated State of the EU in 1995, an Acceding Country in 2004, and a member on January 1, 2007. Geography. Romania is found in the southeastern part of Europe. It borders the Black Sea and the Danube. The Carpathian Mountains lie in the center. Romania is the biggest country in southeastern Europe by number of people. It has an area of. It is the twelfth-largest country in Europe. Most of Romania's border with Serbia and Bulgaria is made by the Danube. The Danube is joined by the Prut River. The Prut River makes the border with the Republic of Moldova. The Danube then flows into the area of the Black Sea inside of Romania. This makes the Danube Delta. It is a biosphere reserve and a biodiversity World Heritage Site. Some of the other major rivers in Romania are the Siret, the Olt, and the Mureş. The Siret River runs from the north to the south of Moldavia. The Olt River runs from the Carpathian Mountains to Oltenia. The Mureş runs through Transylvania from the east to the west. Landscape. The land in Romania is equal parts mountainous, hilly and low-lying areas. The Carpathian Mountains make up a big part of the center of Romania. 14 of its mountain ranges are taller than 2,000 meters. The tallest mountain in Romania is Moldoveanu Peak (). Rivers. The Danube is the longest river in Romania. It travels about 1,075 kilometers through Romania. That is almost half of its' length. Nearly all of the rivers in Romania are either direct or indirect tributaries of the Danube. Weather. Romania has a climate that changes between temperate and continental climates. The reason for the climate changes is because of where Romania is found in relation to the coast. Romania has four different seasons. The average temperature during the year is 11°C in the southern part of Romania and in the northern part. Lots of rain, snow, and other precipitation falls on the highest western mountains. Most of this falls as snow. This makes Romania have good skiing. In the south-centern parts of the country, the amount of rain and snow that falls is around. In the Danube Delta, not much rain falls. The lowest temperature ever recorded in Romania was -37.3°F, which was found near Braşov in the year 1944. The highest temperature ever recorded in Romania was 112°F, which was found near Calafat in the 1950s. Society. In the year 2002, Romania had a population of around 21,698,181 people. Romanians make up 89.5% of the population. There are a few other minorities in Romania. Hungarians make up about 6.5% of the population in Romania. The Romas make up about 2.5% of the people that live in Romania. In Transylvania, A lot of Hungarians live there. They also make up a big part of the counties Harghita and Covasna. Ukrainians, Germans, Lipovans, Turks, Tatars, Serbs, Slovaks, Bulgarians, Croats, Greeks, Russians, Jews, Czechs, Poles, Italians, Armenians, and a few other denominations are what the rest of the people are made up of in Romania. Language. The official language of Romania is Romanian. The Romanian language is an Eastern Romance language. It is similar to the Italian, French, Spanish, Portuguese and Catalan languages. 91% of the population of Romania speaks Romanian as their first language. Hungarian and Rroma are the most important minority languages in Romania. Religion. Romania is a secular state. This means Romania has no national religion. The biggest religious body in Romania is the Romanian Orthodox Church. It is an autocephalous church inside of the Eastern Orthodox communion. This religion made up 86.7% of the population, as of the year 2002. Other religion in Romania include Roman Catholicism (4.7%), Protestantism (3.7%), Pentecostalism (1.5%) and the Romanian Greek-Catholic Church (0.9%). Cities. Bucharest is the capital of Romania. It also is the biggest city in Romania, with a population of over 1.9 million people. There are five other cities in Romania that have a population of more than 300,000 people. The five cities are: Iaşi, Cluj-Napoca, Timişoara, Constanţa, and Craiova. Romania also has five cities that have more than 200,000 people living in them. They include: Galaţi, Braşov, Ploieşti, Brăila and Oradea. Thirteen other cities in Romania have a population of more than 100,000 people. Monuments. The UNESCO List of World Heritage Sites includes Romanian sites like the Saxon villages with fortified churches in Transylvania, the painted churches of northern Moldavia, the Wooden Churches of Maramures, the Monastery of Horezu, the citadel of Sighişoara, and the Dacian Fortresses of the Orăştie Mountains. The reason why Romania stands out in its usage of World Heritage Sites is the fact that they are spread out all over the country, instead of being found all in one place. Culture. Romania has its own culture, mainly because of where it is located. It is this way because it is the point where three different areas meet: Central Europe, Eastern Europe, and the Balkans. These cannot be included in any of those areas. Most of the influences that came to Romania during the old times until the Middle Ages were from Slavic people. Folk music of Romania. Romanian culture is very large: pan flutes, cymbals, alphorns etc. These are folk instruments. Folklore music of Romania influenced the Romanian classical music. The culture of Romania was influenced by the Greeks, Romans, and Slavs. Gheorghe Zamfir is a Romanian singer who sings folklore songs using the panflute. The alphorn is used in Carpathians to communicate over long distances. There are also many traditional dances, for example: "Sârba", "Hora"(round dance), and Brâu. Classical music. The best known Romanian composer is George Enescu, well-known for the Romanian Rapsodies (see also:List of Romanians composers). The Romanian composer Ion Ivanovici composed the waltz "Waves of Danube". Literature. A famous Romanian writer is Mihai Eminescu, a writer who wrote poems. Ion Creanga, another writer, wrote many stories and memories. The most famous creation is "Amintiri din copilarie"(Memories from chilhood).(See also:List of Romanian writers) Economy. Romania joined the European Union on January 1, 2007. As of now, Romanias' economy is doing all right. Currently, Romania makes around $264 billion in Gross domestic product and a GDP per capita of $12,285. This hasn't always been the case, though. In 1989, after the Communists left Romania, Romanias' economy was in very bad shape. Unemployment was high and the whole economic system was not there and needed help. This period of having a bad economy lasted for about 10 years. In 2000, the people who lead Romania finally started making changes to the economy and the system. People started being able to work again and inflation went down. Divisions. Romania is divided into 41 counties, and the municipality of Bucharest, which is its own county. Romania is divided more into 319 cities and 2,686 communes. Each of the communes has its own council that is led by a mayor.  
Argon	Argon is a chemical element. The symbol for argon is Ar, and its atomic number (or proton number) is 18. It is a noble gas and no electrons or protons can be lost or gained from this atom. Argon atoms are found in air. About 1% of the Earth's atmosphere (the air around us) is argon.  
Trade	To trade is to willingly give things or services and get other things or services in return. For example, a person giving a thing must find another person who wants to get that thing. The giver gets something back in return. Other Words. A trade is also called an exchange or a swap. Trades with Goods, Services and Money. The things that are given from one person to the other are called goods. Services can also be part of a trade. One person can do a job or work for another, and get something in return in a trade. Money can be given in return for a service or for a thing. If money is part of the trade, then the person who gives the money is buying, and the person who gets the money is selling. More Words. A place where trading takes place is called a market. When there is no money involved in the trade, the trade is called barter. If there is money involved in the trade, the trade is called a purchase. In the past people would barter to get what they wanted, instead of buying goods and services. The study of trade is called "economics". Countries and Trade. Now trade is not just between people, but also between large companies or even countries. Countries sometimes take some of the money or goods involved in a trade between countries. This is a type of tax called a tariff. Smugglers try to trade without paying tarrifs. A free trade between two countries has no tariff on the trade.  
European Union	The European Union (abbreviation: EU) is an economic and political union of 27 member countries in Europe, started in 1957 as the European Economic Community (EEC). It has created a common economic area with Europe-wide laws allowing people to move and trade in other EU countries almost like it was their own. Fifteen of these countries also share the same money: the euro. On January 1st 2009, Slovakia will have the Euro as well. History. After World War II the countries in Europe wanted to live peacefully together and help one another's economies. Instead of fighting for coal and steel, the first member countries (West) Germany, France, Italy, Belgium, Netherlands, and Luxembourg created one European Coal and Steel Community in 1952. In 1957 in the Italian city of Rome, the member countries signed another treaty and made the European Economic Community. Now it was a community for coal, steel and for trade. Later it changed the name to European Community. In 1992, with the "Treaty of Maastricht" it changed its name to the European Union. Now the member countries work together not only in politics and economy (coal, steel and trade), but also in money, justice (laws), and foreign affairs. With the Schengen Agreement, 13 member countries of the EU opened their borders to each other, so people can now travel from one country to the other without a passport or identity card. Now already 15 member countries have replaced their national currencies with the euro.10 new countries became members of the EU in 2004 and 2 more became members of the EU in 2007. Today there are 27 member countries altogether. Free movement. A person who has a passport of a European Union country can live and work in any of the other 27 member countries without needing a work permit or visa. For example, a British person can move to Greece to work there, or just to live there, and he or she does not need a permission from an authority in Greece. In the same way, products made in one member country can be sold in any other member country without any special permissions or extra taxes. For this reason, the members agree rules on product safety - they want to know that a product made in another country will be as safe as it would be if it had been made in their own country. Main institutions. The Union has three political institutions with the executive and legislative power. The Council represents governments, the Parliament represents citizens and the Commission represents the European interest. The Council, Parliament or another party can request legislation from the Commission. The Commission then drafts this and presents it to the Parliament and Council. In most cases both must agree. After it is approved and signed by both chambers it becomes law. The Commission's duty is to ensure it is implemented by dealing with the day-to-day running of the Union. Council of the European Union. This is the main decision-making institution. The cabinet ministers of the member countries meet (Ministers for Foreign affairs, for Agriculture, for Justice, etc...) and discuss their relevant issues. Each member state takes a turn at being President of the Council for six months. For example: from January 2007 until July 2007, Germany holds the presidency. The six months before, Finland held the presidency. The President of the Council is the organiser and manager, he or she does not have the power to make decisions about the European Union like the President of the United States does. Member countries with a large population (Germany, France, United Kingdom etc.) have more votes than countries with small populations (Luxembourg, Malta, etc.) but a decision cannot be made if there the vote against is big enough. Twice a year, the heads of government (Prime Ministers) and/or the heads of state (Presidents) meet to discuss the main issues and make decisions on different matters, this meeting is different and not as formalised, it is known as a European Council. European Commission. The European Commission manages the day to day running of the EU and writes laws, like a government. Laws written by the Commission are discussed and changed by the European Parliament and the Council of the European Union. The Commission has one President and 26 Commissioners, selected by the European Council. The Commission President is appointed by the European Council with the approval of the European Parliament. The Commission operates like a cabinet government. There is one Commissioner per member state, though Commissioners are bound to represent the interests of the EU as a whole rather than their home state. European Parliament. The Parliament has a total of 785 members (called Members of the European Parliament, or MEP). They are elected in their countries every five years by the citizens of the European Union member countries. The Parliament can approve, reject or change proposed laws. It can also sack the European Commission. In that case, the entire commission would have to give up their jobs. Member countries. In 1951, six countries made the "European Coal and Steel Community", a basic version of what the EU is now. These six then went further and in 1957 they made the European Economic Community and the European Coal and Steel Community. The UK and others decided not to join, and then when the UK changed its mind it was stopped from joining by French President Charles de Gaulle. When he was no longer President, the UK and others started to join. Today there are 27 members but the idea that more should join is not seen as a good one by everyone. Croatia, Republic of Macedonia and Turkey are "candidate countries", they are being considered for membership. Albania, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Montenegro and Serbia (including or along side Kosovo) are expected to follow. Politics. There are many discussions in the EU about how it should develop and change in the future.  
Greece	Greece (or Ελλάς), officially the Hellenic Republic (), is a country in Southeastern Europe. Its capital city is Athens. It borders Albania, the Former Yugoslavian Republic of Macedonia and Bulgaria to the north, and Turkey to the east. The Aegean Sea lies to the east and south of mainland Greece, the Ionian Sea lies to the west. Both parts of the Eastern Mediterranean Sea have a lot of islands. Greece's history is one of the richest in the world. Greece is divided into 13 districts called peripheries, and these have 51 sections called prefectures. Some Greek prefectures are Achaea, Samos, Pella, and Xanthi. Greece became a member of the European Union in 1981. Greece fought in both World War I and World War II. The languages spoken in Greece are; Greek 99% (the official language), English, and French.  
Sweden	Sweden (Sverige in Swedish) is a Nordic country in the part of Europe called Scandinavia. Its neighbors are Finland and Norway. Sweden is also connected to Denmark in the south by a bridge. It belongs to the developed countries, and it is famous for its welfare state. Its capital city is Stockholm. Sweden is a constitutional monarchy, because it has a king, Carl XVI Gustaf. Sweden is a parliamentary state meaning that the government is elected by the parliament which is appointed by the people. The country is democratically ruled by a government headed by an elected prime minister, who currently is Fredrik Reinfeldt. The population of Sweden is 9,3 million people. Sweden does not have an official majority language, but most Swedes speak Swedish ("svenska"). Sweden has five official minority languages, Finnish, Yiddish, Sami, Meänkieli and Romani. Sweden became a member of the European Union in 1995. It is not a member of the European Monetary Union. The currency is the Swedish krona. Norrland in the North, Svealand, the central region, and Götaland in the South. Military. During many wars, including the Vietnam War and World War II, the country did not take sides. During World War II, it sold supplies to both the British and the Germans in order to protect its neutrality. Sweden is heavily armed for a small country. It even develops its own jet fighters, which most countries do not do.  
Capital	The word "capital" is sometimes mistaken with "capitol". A capitol is a building in which a legislature meets.  
Albert Einstein	Albert Einstein (March 14, 1879 - April 18, 1955) was a famous scientist. He received the Nobel Prize in 1921 for Physics. Einstein is famous for his theories about light, matter, gravity, space, and time, which helps scientists to understand these things much better than they had before. His theories include the theory of special relativity and the theory of general relativity. His most famous equation is formula_1. It means that energy and mass are different forms of the same thing, and that the amount of energy in a piece of mass is the same as the amount of the mass multiplied by the speed of light times itself (a very big number). His life. Einstein was born at Ulm in Württemberg, Germany on March 14, 1879. He was a very fat baby, with an unusually large head. His family was Jewish but was not very religious. Albert also didn't talk until he was about three, which is very unusual. When Albert was around four, his father gave him a magnetic compass. He was very interested in trying to understand how an invisible force could make the needle move and became interested in studying science and mathematics. This compass inspired him to explore the world. Albert went to a Roman Catholic school. He was not a good student, and many people thought him to be not very smart. When he became older, he went to a school in Switzerland. After he graduated, he got a job in the patent office there. While he was working there, he wrote the papers that made him famous as a great scientist.Einstein had two heavily-disabled children with his first wife Mileva. Liesel suffered from Down syndrome and was brought to her Serbian grandparents. She has been never heard of again. Eduard Einstein was diagnosed with a severe mental illness spending decades in hospitals. Einstein's brain was found severely unusual for a genius. Geniuses' brains are around 1500 to 1600 cm³. There is an indirect connection between brain size and the size of the neopallium especially important for the brain's higher functions. However,Einstein's brain weight was under-average and showed further signs of degeneration (e.g.Sylvian fissure). In 1917, Einstein became very sick with an illness that almost killed him. His cousin Elsa Lowenthal then nursed him back to health. After this, Einstein divorced Mileva, and married Elsa on June 2, 1919. Just before the start of World War I, he moved back to Germany, and became director of a school there. He lived in Berlin until the Nazi government came to power. The Nazis hated people who were Jewish or who came from Jewish families. They accused Einstein of helping to create "Jewish physics," and German physicists tried to prove that his theories were wrong. Einstein moved to the United States to Princeton, New Jersey after feeling the heat of Nazi Germany and in 1940 he became a United States citizen. During World War II, Einstein wrote to the U.S. president Franklin D. Roosevelt, to say that the United States should invent an atomic bomb before the Nazi government could invent one first. He was also part of the Manhattan project, which was the project to create the atomic bomb. Einstein died on April 18, 1955 of heart disease. He was still writing about quantum physics hours before he died. The Special Theory of Relativity. The Special Theory of Relativity was published by Einstein in 1905 on a paper called "On the Electrodynamics of Moving Bodies". It states that both space and time are altered near the speed of light. This means that as you get closer to the speed of 186,000 miles per second, distances appear to stretch, and clocks tick more slowly. Einstein proposed that Special Relativity is based on two ideas. The first is that the laws of physics are the same for all observers in an inertial state of motion, meaning that all observers move in different directions without acceleration. The second idea is that the constancy of the speed of light in a vacuum is always the same. A vacuum is a space without matter. The Special Theory of Relativity also states that every peson has their own time, meaning that one person's clock says something different than another person's clock. The reason for this is time dilation, which can be understood better by the twin paradox. The twin paradox also shows how time has changed because of speed and mass. The faster something moves, or the more mass that it has, makes time go slower for them. You can demonstrate this with a pair of twins. Suppose that Joe and Moe are identical twins. On their twentienth birthday, Joe goes into space in a rocket going close to the speed of light. He stays in the rocket for a while, and then comes back to Earth where Moe is waiting for him. They will discover that Moe is a lot older than Joe because Joe was traveling near the speed of light, and therefore, time goes by much slower for him, due to relativistic time dilation. So, time dilation is the effect that a stationary clock runs slower than a moving clock. Special Relativity also relates energy with mass, in Albert Einstein's E=mc2 formula. Mass-energy equivalence. E=mc2, also called the mass-energy equivalence, is one of the things that Einstein is most famous for. It is a famous equation in physics and math that relates mass to energy. The "E" in the equation stands for energy. Energy is a number in which you give to objects depending on how much they change. It is a number given to all physical objects to describe how much potential the object has in order to change. There are three basic forms of energy: Potential Energy, Kinectic Energy, and Rest Energy. When energy moves from one form to another, the amount of energy always remains the same. It can't be made or destroyed. This rule is called the "conservation law of energy". For example, when you throw a ball, the energy is transferrred from your hand to the ball as you release it. But the energy that was in your hand, and now the energy that is in the ball is the same number. The "M" in the equation stands for mass. Mass is the amount of matter you have in your body. A lot of people think mass and weight is the same thing, but it isn't. An object always has the same amount of mass, even if you were to go to the moon, while the weight of an object changes if you go to the moon. But the mass can change as it gets closer to the speed of light. The object becomes bigger. But mass and weight are also similar in some ways. Because a boulder weighs more than a pebble, it has more energy in it, and therefore has more mass. The c2 in the equation stands for the speed of light squared. To square something means to multiply it by itself, so if you were to square the speed of light, it would be 186,000 miles per second, times 186,000 miles per second. Einstein's equation, E=mc2, implies that an object with mass has energy in its mass, and objects with more mass have more energy. An example of this is a photon. A light photon has no mass, but its energy can act as its mass when it hits something. The equation also says that an object with mass can't go faster than the speed of light. The General Theory of Relativity. The General Theory of Relativity was published in 1915, ten years after the Special Theory of Relativity was created. According to the General Theory of Relativity, the gravitational attraction between masses results in the masses in space and time, meaning that every object is attracted to each other, and that results in space and time. Einstein's General Relativity also explained spacetime. Spacetime is the fact that we have a four dimensional universe, having three spatial(space) dimensions, and one temporal(time) dimension. All physical objects-us, the moon, the sun, the Milky Way, everything, is located inside these three dimensions. Also, mass changes the shape of spacetime to change, making the force of gravity curved. These curves are called gravitational waves, and all moving things follow these curves. Black holes are a major source of gravitational waves. A black hole is an object in the universe that has such a strong pull of gravity, that not even light can escape it. They are formed when giant stars, at least three times the size of our sun, dies. This is called a supernova. Also, general relativity explains gravitational lensing, which is where light bends when a massive object comes near it. This was proven during a solar eclipse, when the sun moved behind the moon, and made light General Relativity also set the stage for the theory of the formation of our universe. This theory is called the Big Bang. General Relativity explained singularities, which is what scientists think the universe formed from. This singularity was small, dense, and very hot. All of the matter that we know today came out of this point 15 billion years ago. Beliefs. Many scientists only care about their work, but Einstein also spoke and wrote often about politics and world peace. He liked the ideas of socialism and of having only one government for the whole world. He also worked for Zionism, the effort to try to create the new country of Israel. Einstein's family was Jewish, but Einstein never practiced this religion seriously. He liked the ideas of the Jewish philosopher Baruch Spinoza and also thought that Buddhism was a good religion. Even though Einstein thought of many ideas that helped scientists understand the world much better, he disagreed with many scientific theories that were developed later in his life. Many scientific theories discuss things that we cannot know for certain, but only as probabilities. Einstein didn't like these kinds of theories; he thought that it should be possible to understand anything, if we had the correct theory. He once said, "I do not believe that God plays dice with the Universe." Because Einstein helped science so much, his name is now used for several different things. A unit used in photochemistry was named for him. It is equal to Avogadro's number multiplied by the energy of one photon of light. The chemical element Einsteinium is named after the scientist as well. In slang, we sometimes call a very smart person an "Einstein." One of his inspiring sayings is "There are two ways to live your life, one is as though nothing is a miracle, the other is as though everything is a miracle." There is still a strong criticism of Einstein. Ronald William Clark says that Einstein hated Germany and the Germans since his youth. G.O.Mueller wrote a whole encyclopedia refuting Einstein's relativity. G.O.Mueller, Aristotle, Kant, Leibniz say space and time are categories of perception, not distortable "things", and not joined together.The speed of light could be higher. Paul Dirac and others thought that constants can change over time, too (e.g. gravitation).G.O.Mueller lists about 4000 Einstein-critical works since 1905, rallying worldwide for rethinking relativity.  
Euro	Euro is the currency (money) of the countries in Eurozone. One euro is subdivided into 100 "cents". Because of the number of different languages in the EU, there are different names for this unit (the French call them "centimes" and the Spanish "céntimos", for example). It was created in 1999, but until 1 January 2002 it was used only for electronic methods. In 2002, 12 countries of the EU (The European Union) got rid of their national currencies completely and adopted euro notes and coins as their only money. There was a change-over period, called the "transition period" when both the old national money and the euro was accepted, but by 28 February 2002, all 12 countries were using just euros. In 2007, Slovenia became the 13th country to use the euro. In 2008 Cyprus and Malta became the 14th and 15 countries to use the euro. There are 7 different banknotes, each one with a different colour, size and face value: €5 (grey), €10 (red), €20 (blue), €50 (orange), €100 (green), €200 (yellow), €500 (purple). Coins are of 8 different amounts: €0.01, €0.02, €0.05, €0.10, €0.20, €0.50, €1, €2. On every banknote, there is a picture of a different European building style. All banknotes are the same throughout the entire Eurozone - there are no different designs for different countries, unlike the euro coins. One side of each coin is the same in all euro countries. The other side is different since each country who mints the coins inserts a symbol relating to that country. Today there are 12 different sets of coins. Any of the coins can be used everywhere throughout the Eurozone despite the country-specific symbol on the back. The 10 new European countries that entered the EU in May 2004 are planning to also adopt the Euro. First they must meet some conditions to show that they have stable economies. Symbol. The symbol for the euro is the Greek letter epsilon (E) with two horizontal lines: €. Some people see it as the Latin capital letter C with an equal sign (=). It is also legal to simply write "euro". This is especially useful when the symbol cannot be produced, or the result is not satisfactory. The countries above form the Economic and Monetary Union (EMU).  
Currency	Currency is the unit of money used by the people of a country or Union for buying and selling goods and services. Certain currencies are said to be "pegged" or "fixed" to something, usually another currency. A fixed or pegged currency is one that has a constant value compared to what it is pegged to. For example, the Cape Verdian escudo is pegged to the Euro. If the value of the Euro goes up 1% compared to another form of currency, the value of the escudo goes also goes up 1% compared to that same currency. Many countries have used systems where their money was pegged to something other than currency, for example gold. When they do this, as the value of gold increases, so does the value of their money. Doing this is commonly called using the "Gold standard". Most countries do not use the Gold standard now.  
Radio telescope	A radio telescope is like a huge satellite dish. An ordinary telescope allows people to see light from distant objects. Stars shine and the light can be seen with a telescope, but they also give off radio waves. Scientists with radio telescopes receive these radio waves and use computers to learn about the stars. Other things like black holes also give off radio waves and radio telescopes are useful for learning about them too. The dish is sometimes constructed of a conductive wire mesh whose openings are smaller than a wavelength. The information received by several radio telescopes in different places can be combined. This gives similar results to having a single dish as big as the distance between the telescopes, so even very faint signals can be received. Scientists are also trying to do this with ordinary telescopes. The radio telescope at the Parkes Observatory, Parkes, New South Wales was used by NASA to receive messages from the Apollo 11 moon landings.  
Light year	A light year (or light-year or lightyear) is not a length of time, but the distance that light will travel in one Earth year (365 days), going at the speed of light. One light year is about 6 trillion miles, or 10 trillion kilometers. Because the universe is so big, some things are hundreds, thousands or millions of light years away. Because light that leaves a star 100 light years away will take 100 years to get to us, this means that when we see the star's light, we are actually seeing that star as it was 100 years ago.  
Korea	Korea is a nation in the eastern part of Asia. People have lived in Korea for about 15,000 years. In history, Manchuria and some of Siberia used to be part of Korea. The best silk used to come from Korea. In the 7th century, the people of China also liked the gold workers from Korea. Europeans knew very little about Korea until modern times. The printing machine was made in Korea in 1232 and used metal letters. But the original printing machine, which used wooden letters, was made in China almost 1500 years ago. This was a long time before Gutenberg made the printing machine in Europe. The nation of Korea was made into two countries after World War II. North Korea is in the north. South Korea is in the south. North Korea is ruled by a military dictatorship. South Korea is a democracy. North and South Korea fought each other in the Korean War. South Korea has over 48-million people, and North Korea has more than 23-million. South Korea's biggest city is Seoul. It has more than 10-million people. North Korea's biggest city is Pyongyang. It has less than 4-million people. Korea is famous for its traditional food kimchi. Kimchi is spicy pickled cabbage. Koreans eat kimchi a lot. Koreans eat lots of fish, beef, and chicken along with sticky white rice and kimchi. Pizza and hamburgers are also sometimes eaten but is not common. Birthday food includes seaweed soup eaten the morning of someone's birthday, but it is not common now. Many people say Koreans eat dog meat. Some people do, but it is not common. Only a few people eat dog meat these days. Many people in South Korea speak English and other languages. Children in South Korea learn English and other languages in school. South Korea is an advanced country with large cities, high-speed trains, high-speed internet, and many TV & radio networks. Korean soap-operas are popular around the world. Korean TV commercials are among the most expensive in the world. However, there are still poor areas in Korea. Farmers are not rich and struggle against food from other countries. Gojoseon. Gojoseon is the first state of Korean established at 2333 BCE. The founder of Gojoseon is said to be Dangun (Pronounced "Dan-Kune"). People of Korea believe that Dangun established the country on October 3rd, and still celebrate that day as the establishment day of Korea. Gojoseon was destroyed by Buyeo, which was succeeded by Goguryeo, at about 230BCE. Three Kingdoms. Between 57 BC and the year 668 there were three kingdoms in Korea. The names of the kingdoms were: "Silla", "Goguryeo" and "Baekje". In the year 372 the religion Buddhism came from China to Korea. Buddhism was very important in Korea. In the year 660 the kingdom of Silla invaded the kingdom of Baekje. In the year 668 the kingdom of Silla invaded the kingdom of Gyguryeo. The people of Goguryeo ran away and made a new kingdom with the name "Barhae". After a little time, the kingdom of Silla invaded the kingdom of Barhae. From the year 681 to the year 935 the kingdom of Silla was the only kingdom in Korea. This time has the name "Unified Silla". In the Silla kingdom Buddhism was very important. Goryeo. In the year 918 the kingdom of "Goryeo" was made. The name "Korea" comes from "Goryeo". The kingdom of Goryeo had power until the year 1392. The kingdom of Goryeo wrote the law in books. The kingdom made a big government. Buddhism was very important in the kingdom of Goryeo. Joseon. In the year 1392 a man from the military of Korea went to China. His name was "Yi Seonggye". The job of Yi was to speak against China. But Yi made friends with the people in China. When Yi came to Korea, he changed the kingdom. Yi was king. The name of the kingdom was "Joseon". In the year 1394, the people of Joseon moved the capital to Seoul. The religion of Buddhism was not important. A new religion Confucianism was important. Confucianism came from China. In the year 1443 the king "Sejong" ruled. He invented the Korean alphabet. In the year 1592 and the year 1598 the people from Japan fought Korea. A man from the military made very strong ships. The name of the man was "Yi Sun-sin". With the strong ships, the people of Korea won. The people of Joseon were always friends with the people of China. Today, North Koreans use the name Joseon (officially Chosŏn) to mean Korea. 19th century. In the 19th century the people of Korea did not want to trade with other people. People called Korea "Hermit Kingdom". see hermit The people of the United States wanted to trade with Korea. The people of Japan also wanted to trade with Korea. In the year 1876 the military of Japan fought Korea. Korea and Japan made a contract to trade. In 1895 Japan won a war against China. The name of the war was "Sino-Japanese War". The military of Japan killed the Queen of Korea in 1895. The name of the Queen was "Min". Korea changed the name to "Daehan Jeguk" (kingdom of Korea). The people from Korea made friends with the people from Russia. In 1905 Japan won a war against Russia. The name of the war was Russo-Japanese War. In the year 1910, the emperor of Japan made Korea a colony of Japan. Colony of Japan. Korea was a colony of Japan from the year 1910 to the year 1945. The Japanese occupation was harsh. The people of Korea were forced to study the history of Japan and Japanese. They also stopped the people of Korea from speaking the language of Korea. Many people of Korea had to change their name to Japanese name. The people of Korea were not happy with the Japanese occupation. In 1919 the people of Korea were very unhappy. The people marched in the streets. The people made a big demonstration. The people asked the emperor of Japan to go. The police of Japan were not happy with the people. The police arrested 47,000 people, killed 7,500 people, and injured 16,000 people. When World War II started, the policy of the Japanese government changed. They wanted Korea to be a part of Japan. The government made the religion of Japan the religion of Korea. The people of Korea were stopped from celebrating the festivals of Korea. Many men from Korea went to the military of Japan and went to work in Japan. They worked in mines and factories. The men did not want to go, but the Japanese people wanted to. Some women were forced to work as prostitues for Japanese Soldiers. These women were called "comfort women". In the year 1945 Japan lost World War II. The USA and the Soviet Union made a contract. The USA occupied the south of Korea. The Soviet Union occupied the north of Korea. The people from Korea wanted to be free. The USA and the Soviet Union wanted the people of Korea to be free. But in 1945 the USA and the Soviet Union were not friends. The Cold War started. The USA and the Soviet Union did not make a contract. The UN thought that invading Korea would keep South Korea a free country. If this had not happened, South Korea would not be free country today and would be controlled by Communists and starving, much like the North. In 1948 the people in the south made a country called South Korea. The USA helped the people of South Korea. In 1948 the people of North Korea also made a country. The Soviet Union helped the people of North Korea. In 1950 a war started in Korea. The name of the war was the Korean War. The war ended in 1953, but no peace treaty was signed. The line between North and South was the same in the end as it was before the war. No land was lost or gained. Now there are two countries: North Korea (also called the DPRK or Democratic People's Republic of Korea) and South Korea (also called the Republic of Korea).  
English language learning and teaching	English as an additional language (EAL) is when people study English as a new language. In the United States it is often called English as a second language (ESL). In this case (particular situation), "first language" means any language a person speaks from childhood, even if they speak more than one, and "second language" means any non-native language, no matter how many a person speaks. English as a foreign language (EFL) is an important business in Britain. It is also called ESOL (English for Speakers of Other Languages). There are many schools in Oxford or London. There are also many schools in the south of England. Many schools are in cities along the sea. English is a very important language in business. Many people study English as a foreign language, because they want a better job. English is also very important in education. Many pages on the internet are in English. English As A Second Language is the single most popular subject in the world, after mathematics. Many people who can not go to English language classes study on the internet, using websites like. Many people study English in a country where the people speak English. This way, many students learn listening and speaking English better. English exams. There are many English exams. Many people study English for an exam (examination). An English exam is important to show how well a person can speak English. Cambridge exams. The Cambridge exams are very popular in Europe. The University of Cambridge ESOL makes these exams. There are five exams for general English. Students take these exams in many schools. Students can take the exams in England or in schools in many other countries. The easiest exam is the KET. KET means "Key English Test". The KET is the start of the Cambridge exams. The KET tests basic English. The PET is more difficult. PET means "Preliminary English Test". People with a PET know some English. They can survive social situations in English. They can also survive work situations in English. But they often find English difficult. They also make many mistakes. The FCE is the most popular of the Cambridge English exam. FCE means "First Certificate in English". The FCE is good for many businesses. People with a FCE can use English. They sometimes find English difficult. Normally they have no problems with English. But they make mistakes. The CAE is a difficult exam. CAE means "Certificate in Advanced English". The CAE is good for many universities. The CAE is also good for many businesses. People with a CAE have no problems working in England or United States of America. The CPE is the most difficult exam. CPE stands for "Certificate of Proficiency in English". People who have a CPE are very good at English. Their English is nearly as good as people who are from England or America. The CPE is good for universities. The CPE is also good for business. Many universities who teach courses in English want a CPE or CAE from foreign-language students. There are two English exams systems for business. The "Business English Certificate" (BEC) is available at three levels comparable to PET, FCE and CAE above BEC means. The BULATS "Business Language Testing Service" is a single examination which can offer organisations or individuals the opportunity of assessing their current language level. IELTS. The IELTS is the International English Language Testing System. This system is from the University of Cambridge, the British Council and IDP Education in Australia. It has one exam for academics or professionals, and one for people who want to live in an English-speaking country. Universities in Britain, Ireland, Australia, South Africa, Canada, New Zealand and New Zealand often want an IELTS exam. IELTS is also becoming popular in North America. The IELTS tests: speaking, listening, writing and reading. TOEFL. The TOEFL is a very popular English exam. It is very popular in the US. It is also very popular in countries which are friends with the US. TOEFL means "Test of English as a Foreign Language". The TOEFL is an academic exam. Many universities in America want a TOEFL exam. In 2005 a new TOEFL was made. The new TOEFL uses Internet. Its name is "Internet-Based TOEFL" (iBT). The old TOEFLs did not stop. They are called "Computer-Based TOEFL" (CBT) and "Paper-Based TOEFL", but are not now available in all countries. TOEIC. The TOEIC is a general English exam. TOEIC means "Test of English for International Communication". The exam has 200 questions. Every question is a multiple choice question. A multiple-choice question is a question where you choose which answer (e.g. a, b, c or d) is correct. The result of the TOEIC is a number. This number is between 10 and 990. 990 is the best number. The TOEIC number is often used for jobs. Many jobs need a number bigger than 600. Managers often need a number bigger than 800. LCCIEB. LCCIEB means "London Chamber of Commerce and Industry Examinations Board". The LCCIEB makes many English exams. Many businesses like LCCIEB exams. The EFB means "English for Business". The EFB is a business English exam. It tests basic general English. It also tests more difficult business English. The EFC means "English for Commerce". The EFC is a business English exam. It tests business writing. It also tests business skills. Business skills are ideas how to manage a business. The EFC is more difficult than the EFB. The PBE means "Practical Business English". The PBE is a business English exam. It tests business speaking. It also tests business listening. The PBE is for basic English. People with a PBE can have a basic business conversation. The SEFIC means "Spoken English for Industry and Commerce". The SEFIC is a business English exam. It tests business speaking. It is more difficult than the PBE. It tests difficult business speaking. It also tests difficult business listening. The WEFT means "Written English for Tourism". The WEFT is an English business exam. It tests business speaking. It tests speaking at hotels. It also tests speaking in other parts of tourism. The WEFT also tests listening. The BULATS means "Business Language Testing Service". The BULATS is a special exams for big companies. The BULATS are made for a company. The BULATS for another company is different. Pitman. Pitman exams are made by the City and Guilds Group. There are two important English exams by Pitman. The ESOL means "English for Speakers of Other Languages". The ESOL tests English at many levels. The ESOL is good for going to many colleges. The "Spoken ESOL" is like the ESOL. But the Spoken ESOL only tests speaking and listening. The EBC means "English for Business Communications". The EBS is a business English exam. There are three levels. CELS (ARELS/Oxford). The CELS exams are English exams for people who want to study in England. CELS means "Certificates in Communicative Skills in English". The CELS exam comes from the old ARELS and Oxford exams; now they are Cambridge ESOL exams. The ARELS exam tests speaking and listening. The Oxford exam tests writing and reading. The new name of Arels and Oxford together is CELS. There are three levels in the CELS exam. "Preliminary" is the easiest exam. "Vantage" is more difficult. "Higher" is the most difficult exam. People who have the CELS are very good at speaking English. These exams are good for universities. This exam is different from some other exams because learners get one certificate (paper saying how good they are) for each part of the exam. A learner can have a high mark on the speaking certificate but a low one in writing, for example. Compare exams. It is very difficult to compare English exams. Every exam is a little different. In Europe, the ALTE says how different exams compare. The ALTE is the Association of Language Testers in Europe. It has 28 exam makers in it, and compares their exams in 24 languages. The ALTE says what learners can do at every step of learning. Because of this, they say the ALTE list is a "can-do" list. The ALTE list is a simple way to talk about the Common European Framework of Reference for Languages (CEF). The CEF is from the Council of Europe.  
Switzerland	Switzerland is a small country in the west of Europe. To the north of Switzerland is Germany. East of Switzerland are Austria and Liechtenstein. To the south of Switzerland is Italy. To the west of Switzerland is France. Switzerland is known for its neutrality. A country is neutral when it does not take sides among the countries who are at war. Switzerland has been neutral for more than 190 years. Many international organizations are in Switzerland. The United Nations has a main office (but not its headquarters) in Geneva. Its predecessor organization, the League of Nations, was headquartered in Geneva. The official name of Switzerland is "Confoederatio Helvetica". This is Latin. There are four official languages in Switzerland: German, French, Italian, and Romansh. The capital of Switzerland is Bern. The largest city of Switzerland is Zürich. Geography. The area of Switzerland is 41,285 km². The land is divided into 26 areas called "cantons". The 26 cantons are: Aargau, Appenzell Innerrhoden, Appenzell Ausserrhoden, Basel-Stadt, Basel-Land, Berne, Fribourg, Geneva, Glarus, Graubünden, Jura, Lucerne, Neuchâtel, Nidwalden, Obwalden, Schaffhausen, Schwyz, Solothurn, St. Gallen, Thurgau, Ticino, Uri, Valais, Vaud, Zug, and Zürich. Switzerland has 2,889 villages, towns and cities. The mountains are very tall in Switzerland. About 60% of Switzerland is mountain. The Alps are in the center and south of Switzerland. The highest mountain is the "Dufour Peak" at 4,634 m. Many of the mountains have ice every day. This ice is called glaciers. The rivers Rhine, Rhône, and many other rivers start in the mountains of Switzerland. There are many lakes in Switzerland. The biggest lakes are: Lake Geneva ("Lac Léman"), Lake Zürich, Lake Neuchâtel and Lake Constance ("Bodensee"). There are no mountains in the north of Switzerland resulting in many cities and towns built in the north. The biggest cities are Zürich, Basel and Bern. Geneva and Lausanne are big cities in the southwest of Switzerland. The Jura mountains are in the west of Switzerland. People. There are about 7.5 million people in Switzerland. About 64% of the people speak German as their first language, in northern and central Switzerland. 19% of the people speak French as their first language, in the west of Switzerland. 8% of the people speak Italian, in the south of Switzerland. Only 1% of the people speak Romansh, in the southeastern part of Switzerland. Romansh is an old language that is similar to Latin. The people of Switzerland do not speak the same German as people in Germany. The German of Switzerland is difficult to understand for people from Germany. But the people of Switzerland write like the people from Germany. 20% of the people in Switzerland do not have a passport of Switzerland. They come to work in Switzerland. The religion of most people in Switzerland is Christianity. 43% of the population follow Catholicism. 35% of the population follow Protestantism. 2% follow Eastern Orthodoxy. The religion of 4% of the population is Islam. The rest follow other religions, or they have no religion. Switzerland is famous for its chocolate, cheese, banking system, watches and mountains. History. In 1291 people from Uri, Schwyz and Unterwalden wanted to be free. They signed a contract to work together called the "Eternal Alliance". Together the people could be free from the people of Habsburg, who were very strong. In 1315 the people from the Eternal Alliance fought the Habsburgs in battles at Morgarten, Sempach and Näfels. The people of the Eternal Alliance won all battles. People from other areas signed the contract. More and more people worked together to be free. In 1648, other countries from Europe made an agreement that Switzerland was free. The name of this agreement was the "Treaty of Westphalia". More areas came to be part of Switzerland. In 1798, the military from France invaded Switzerland. The ruler of France was Napoleon. He changed many laws. In 1815 Switzerland again became free from France. Other countries made an agreement that Switzerland was free. The name of this agreement was the "Congress of Vienna". It also said that Switzerland was neutral. The constitution of Switzerland that was made in 1848 was replaced in 1999. Switzerland did not fight in World War I or World War II. Since 2002, Switzerland is part of the United Nations. It did not join the United Nations for 57 years because of its neutrality. Government. Switzerland is a republic. Switzerland does not have a normal president. Seven people (called ministers) do the job of president. They are called the Federal Council in English, "Bundesrat" in German, "Conseil Fédéral" in French, "Consiglio Federale" in Italian and "Cussegl Federal" in Romansh. Every year one of these people is made president. The president is not more important than the other six people. There are two parts of parliament in Switzerland. The "Council of States" and the "National Council". Both parts can make laws. There are 46 people in the Council of States. Every canton of Switzerland can send 2 people. Some cantons can only send 1 person. There are 200 people in the National Council. The biggest canton sends most people to the National Council. The smallest cantons only send one person to the National Council. The people of Switzerland can collect signatures if they want to change a law. This is called a "referendum". If enough people sign a referendum, the people vote. The people can also collect signatures to change the constitution. This is called an "iniative". The constitution is the basic law of a country. Economy. Switzerland is a rich country. Switzerland is not member of the European Union, but it is member of the European Free Trade Agreement (EFTA). The EFTA makes trade with other countries in Europe easier. In 1999 Switzerland and the European Union made a contract. This contract makes trade even easier. The banks of Switzerland are important. There are also insurance companies in Switzerland. Tourism is important in Switzerland. There are many places for tourists. Davos, St. Moritz, Pontresina and Laax are in Switzerland. These towns are important for skiing. Tourists also like Lucerne, Geneva, and Zürich. Literature. The literature of Switzerland is divided according to the language used. Most literature was written in German from 1291 until 1798. French became popular in Bern and elsewhere in the 18th century. The Italian language and Romansch-Ladin literature are less important. The Heidi books are among the best known works of Swiss literature. Johann David Wyss wrote the children's book "The Swiss Family Robinson".  
LOL	LOL is an internet slang term that means "laugh out loud". It also means mute in Persian and is a native Dutch word (not an acronym) which, conveniently, means "fun" ("lollig" means "funny"). In Welsh, lol means nonsense - e.g., if a person wanted to say "utter nonsense" in Welsh, they would say "rwtsh lol". It does not mean anything in any other language. LOL is usually used on the internet or when text messaging.  
Toronto, Ontario	Toronto is the largest city in Canada. It is the capital of the province of Ontario. It is found on the north side of Lake Ontario. Many rivers and creeks flow through the city, making deep ravines. There are many beautiful parks near the ravines. Almost six million people live in and around Toronto. Most big Canadian banks and companies have offices there. Toronto is popular with tourists. Visitors can see the Toronto Islands, which are mostly one big park, by taking a ferry. One of the world's tallest towers, the CN Tower, lets people see far away, if they take an elevator to its higher decks. Toronto has a lot of neighborhoods that are distinctive (very different from each other). A lot of "Torontonians" (people who live in Toronto) and visitors think the distinctive neighborhoods make Toronto interesting. In Toronto, there are many interesting museums for art, history and science. These include the Royal Ontario Museum and the Art Gallery of Ontario. There are interesting buildings like the unique City Hall or the SkyDome stadium (now called the Rogers Centre) which has a roof that opens. The Four Seasons Centre for the Performing Arts which was opened in June 2006 is home to the Canadian Opera Company and the National Ballet of Canada. Visitors to Toronto can also see how the province is run by visiting the legislature in Queen's Park. Toronto has five major sports teams: the Toronto Maple Leafs (hockey), the Toronto Blue Jays (baseball), the Toronto Raptors (basketball), the Toronto Argonauts (Canadian football) and Toronto F.C. (soccer). People have come from around the world to live in Toronto. In fact, more than half the people who live in the city were not born in Canada. This makes it an interesting place to see how different types of people live, to hear their languages, and to try different kinds of food. This is why people say Toronto is multicultural. See Also. List of Municipalities in Ontario  
Names of numbers in English	Here are some words for small numbers. Words in bold are irregular. When writing other numbers between 21 and 99, you must use a hyphen (-). The number 100 is written as "one hundred", but sometimes people say "a hundred".  
United States dollar	The United States dollar, or the American dollar, is the official currency, or money, of the United States of America. When writing, the symbol for the American dollar is the dollar sign ($). Dollars can also be known as USD (U.S. Dollar). The American one dollar bill has a picture of George Washington. There are also paper bills that are worth 1, 2, 5, 10, 20, 50, and 100 dollars. There are also dollar coins. Some of them are silver and some of them are gold-colored. Vending machines often give dollar coins as change, since it is easier for the machines to give out coins than paper money. But most of the time people use paper dollars. There are 100 cents in one American dollar. The cent or "penny" is the smallest or least worth coin used in the U.S. There are half-dollar coins, which are worth 50 cents. Quarters are worth 25 cents, dimes are worth ten cents, nickels are worth five cents, and pennies are worth one cent. All coins and paper bills have the faces of famous Americans on the front side. The paper "dollar bill" is actually called a "Federal Reserve Note". "Federal" refers to the U.S. government. The United States Constitution (the main laws in the country), first said that the government must hold enough gold to redeem (trade for) the paper money it printed. This means that, if needed, paper money could be traded to the government for gold. The government of the United States stopped using this "gold standard" in 1971, which means it no longer needs to have enough gold to trade for paper money. The Federal Reserve is the federal government's bank. It lets other banks borrow money. The banks then let people and companies take the money from them. The banks then pay money at a rate called the Federal Funds Rate. This number is set by the Federal Reserve Board and is changed however money is in the country. The paid rate is called the "overnight lending rate" because money is borrowed for a small time. By giving to banks,(or creating liquidity)the "Fed" can bring more money into the world and focus interest on newly created money. Many dollars never enter into the cycle which makes money. They are held in digital accounts and never live in paper form. After printing by the Bureau of Engraving and Printing, the real paper dollars are sold for no more than the cost of the ink and paper.  
Shape of the universe	Shape of the Universe means two things. There are three ways the universe can be shaped: saddle-like, spherical, or flat. Triangle's angles' sums are different in each.  
Meteor shower	A meteor shower is when pieces of rock and dust burn in the Earth's atmosphere. Many objects in space cross the Earth's orbit from time to time, such as comets and rocks. When the Earth passes through the dust and pieces left behind by these rocks, they are attracted by the Earth's gravity and eventually burn in the Earth's atmosphere. When a lot of particles enter the atmosphere at the same time, we see a shower-like effect.  
Cat	Cats, also called domestic cat or house cat ("Felis silvestris catus"), are carnivorous (meat-eating) mammals, of the family "Felidae". Cats have been domesticated for over 3000 years, and they are popular pets. Cats were first domesticated and kept because they eat mice, but later they were kept because they are friendly and good companions. A young cat is called a "kitten". Cats are sometimes called "kitty" or "pussy". The word "cat" is also used for other felines: the big cats (lions, tigers, and others) and wild cats (lynxes, pumas, and others). These big cats aren't tamed and can be very dangerous. There are many different breeds of tabby cats. A female cat is a Queen and the male cat is a Tom. History. Throughout history, people kept cats because the cats hunted and ate mice, rats, and insects. Today, people often keep cats as pets, but there are also cats that live without being cared for by people. These kinds of cats are called "feral cats". Today, special food for cats is widely available. Proper feeding will make a cat live much longer compared to hunting or being fed table scraps. Not feeding a cat correctly can lead to problems (see below for health concerns). Cats cannot taste sweet foods (with sugar) because of a mutation (change) in their ancestors which removed the gene necessary for tasting sweet things. Food. There are many different types of cat food. You can buy "wet" canned food. These come in many different flavors and costs are often very small. There is also "dry" cat food which comes in different sized bags and formulas. There are kitten formulas, cat formulas, health formulas, formulas for reducing a cat's weight, and many others. These can even be organic (made from all natural ingredients), and have vegetables, salmon, tuna, meat, and milk essence. Behavior. Cats are carnivorous; meaning that they tend to eat birds and small mammals (like mice). Cats are quiet and well-behaved animals, so they are popular pets. Many house cats no longer hunt their own food, but eat food that their owner gives them, made in factories. Young kittens are playful. So a lot of pet companies make toys to redeem, or rid of, cats energy without the owner always having to pay attention to it. Grooming. Cats are very clean animals. They groom themselves by licking their fur. The cat's tongue can act as a hairbrush and can clean and detangle a cats fur. Still, many owners buy grooming products so the cat will not always be depended on to take care of itself. After licking their fur, cats sometimes get hairballs. A hairball is a small amount of fur that is vomited up by animals when it becomes too big. Cats are commonly shown coughing up hairballs in comedy shows. Cats are brushed by their owners to try to prevent a lot of hairballs. Pets. House cats are not often taught to do things, but large cats raised by people in enclosed spaces can be taught to do tricks. When a cat is happy, it moves its chest very quickly, which makes a soft noise. This is called "purring". Cats are also very clean animals. They lick their fur many times a day, and they like clean places. They also sleep a lot, sometimes up to 18 hours a day. This makes them easy to care for. Health Concerns. Cats, like other living things, can get diseases. When a cat gets a disease,you should take it to a veterinarian (animal doctor). Depending on the way a cat looks, a disease could be more common. For example, blue-eyed cats with white fur can become sick easier then some other cats. Regular visits to a vet can keep your cat alive many extra years by catching sickness and disease early. House cats, can become overweight easily due to less exercise than feral (wild) cats, and from being spayed or neutered. (This sometimes is known as being "fixed"). Spaying is done for female cats and neutering is done for male cats. It is important to fix cats to avoid overpopulation which means more cats and dogs to be put to sleep (euthanized) in animal "pounds" (pounds are great places to get animals for little money and you will be saving an animals life too!) It then is important to help your cat stay fit by diet and exercise (play is great exercise and no money need be spent to keep a cat entertained -a piece of string can do the trick! Cats can also be born Polydactyl. Polydactyl means many digits, or many "fingers" from poly (many) and dactyl (digit). Sometimes there is a mutation (change) in cat families. Most cats have only four toes per paw. These mutated cats have five. Rarely, some are born with more than five toes per paw. All of these cats are called " polydactyl cats". They can also be called "Hemingway cats" because author Ernest Hemingway owned many of these cats. This mutation can happen in any breed (kind) of cat.  
Engineering	Engineering is the use of science and mathematics to design or make things. Engineers usually design or build things that are sold or given to people. There are different types of engineers that design everything from computers and buildings to watches and websites. People who do engineering are called engineers. They learn engineering by studying at a university or technical school. Study. Most Engineers are very clever. They are also trained with limited things such as budget and material. American Courses. In the United States, most engineers go to a college or university to get an engineering degree. Most people go to school for four years to get a Bachelor's degree in engineering. A Master's Degree is an advanced degree, usually requiring two more years of study after the Bachelors. A person with a Master's degree is eligible to enter a Doctoral program in engineering. A graduate of a Doctoral program is awarded a Doctor of Philosophy degree, which is commonly called a PhD. A PhD in engineering requires three or four years of study after a Master's degree, and includes the completion of a long research report called a dissertation. British Courses. In the United Kingdom, engineering degrees at universities are either 3 year BEng (Bachelor of Engineering) or 4 year MEng (Master of Engineering). Engineers can also get additional recognition in the form of Chartership. In many universities it is common to take only one engineering discipline (e.g. aeronautical or civil engineering) although some universities have a general engineering degree. French Courses. The best way to become an engineer in France is to take the CPGE (Classe Preparatoire pour les Grandes Ecoles is the French class for engineer's school) for two years and then three years in an "Ecole d'Ingénieur" (Engineer's school). You could also study in an IUT (Institut universitaire technologique) for three years, then by three years in an "Ecole d'Ingénieur"  
Communication	Communication can be spoken (a word) or non-spoken (a smile). Communication has many ways, and happens all the time. Not only humans communicate, most other animals do too. Some communication is done without thinking, such as by changing in posture How communication works. Communication works by exchanging information or messages. In very basic terms Besides the content of the message, there are other things that are important. These are not part of the message itself, but rather of its context For a message exchange to be successful, the sender and the recipient must have agreed on a vocabulary. The word "hedge" can mean completely different things based on the context. In biology a hedge is a row of shrubs or trees that make a barrier or form a border. In finance, a hedge is an investment made to reduce therisk of another investment. In linguistics a hedge is a word or set of words that make other words less important. Without any information it is therefore very difficult to know which "hedge" is really meant by the speaker.  
Miracle	For example, a miracle under the first definition would be winning the lottery jackpot. A person who wins a state lottery would think it's a miracle that he won a lottery jackpot, but this would involve no violation of the laws of nature. People often win the lottery, but it is not very likely that he would. A miracle under the second definition would be like a person being able to leap a tall building in a single bound. A violation of the physical law of gravity would have occurred. A miracle under the third definition would be a divine intervention by God, where God's presence would be known during a miracle. The Bible, Koran, Mahabarata and the Avesta contains many references to this definition of miracle. An example from the Bible would be a man crippled since birth getting up and walking after Jesus told him to do so.  
Kami	Kami (神) is a Japanese word for the spirits that are worshipped in the Shintoist religion. Not all of Kami are gods, because some of these spirits are not personified, but have to do with phenomenons and events like the growth of trees, or rain, or other things in Nature; it is believed that these kami live in those natural things. It is usually said that there are. In Japanese the number "eight-million" is normally used to mean infinity.  
Cardboard	Cardboard is a heavy wood-based type of paper, notable for its stiffness and durability. It was first invented in China some time in the 15th century, and is used for a wide variety of purposes. One of its more common uses is as a packaging material. Cardboard boxes were first produced commercially in 1817 in England. Corrugated (also called pleated) paper was patented in England in 1856, used as a liner for tall hats, but corrugated cardboard would not be patented and used as a shipping material until December 20, 1871. The patent was issued to Albert Jones of New York City, New York for single-sided corrugated cardboard. Jones used the corrugated cardboard for wrapping bottles and glass lantern chimneys. The first machine for producing large quantities of corrugated cardboard was built in 1874 by G. Smyth, and in the same year Oliver Long improved upon Jones' design by inventing corrugated cardboard with liner sheets on both sides. This was now cardboard as we know it today. The American Robert Gair invented the corrugated cardboard box in 1890, consisting of pre-cut flat pieces manufactured in bulk that folded into boxes. Gair's invention, as with so many other great innovations, came about as a result of an accident; he was a Brooklyn printer and paper-bag maker during the 1870s, and while he was printing an order of seed bags a metal ruler normally used to crease bags shifted in position and cut the bag. Gair discovered that by cutting and creasing cardboard in one operation he could make prefabricated cartons. Extending this to corrugated cardboard was a straightforward development when the material became available. By the start of the 20th century, corrugated cardboard boxes began replacing the custom-made wooden crates and boxes previously used for trade. The "Kellogg brothers" first used cardboard cartons to hold their flaked corn cereal, and later when they began marketing it to the general public a heat-sealed waxed bag of Waxtite was wrapped around the outside of the box and printed with their brand name. This marked the origin of the cereal box, though in modern times the sealed bag is plastic and is kept inside the box rather than outside. Cardboard packaging has undergone a minor resurgence in recent times due to the trend towards environmentalism. It is now common for cardboard to be manufactured with a large percentage of recycled fibers.  
English language	The English language is the language started by tribes that moved to Britain from West Germany around 450 AD. Languages started by the German tribes are called Germanic languages. English is spoken in many countries around the world. With around 380 million native speakers, it is the second most spoken language in the world. About 220 million more people speak it as a second language and there are as many as a billion people who are learning. English has been an influence on, and has been influenced by many different languages. History. English began in England, a country on the island of Great Britain in Europe. Germanic tribes (Saxons, Angles, and Jutes) came to Britain from around 449 AD. They made their home in the south and east of the island, pushing out the Celtic Britons who were there before them. The Germanic dialects of these different tribes became "Old English". The word "English" was then and that comes from the name of the Angles - "Englas". Old English did not sound or look much like the English we speak today. If English speakers today were to hear or read a passage in Old English, they might understand a few words, but it would be very hard for most to understand what the passage is about. Many other people came to England later at different times, speaking different languages, and these languages added more words to make today's English. For example, around 800 AD, many Danish and Norse pirates, also called Vikings, came to the country and English received many Norse loanwords. Their languages were Germanic languages, like Old English. After William the Conqueror conquered England in 1066 AD with his armies and became king, he brought his nobles, who spoke Norman, to be the new government. They stopped English from being taught in schools for a long time, and the language changed greatly, because it was mostly being spoken instead of written for about 300 years. English borrowed so many words from Norman at that time that it can be called a different language, Middle English. Geoffrey Chaucer is a well known writer of Middle English. After more sound changes, Middle English became Modern English. Although the works of Shakespeare might seem very old, they are actually called modern. English has continued to take new words from other languages, for example from French, Chinese, Hindi and Urdu, Japanese, and Spanish. Because many scientists from different countries needed to talk to each other, they chose names for scientific things in the languages they all knew: Greek and Latin. Those words came to English also, for example, "photography" ("photo-" means "light" "and "-graph" means "picture" or "writing", in Greek. A photograph is a picture made using light), or "telephone". So, English is a combination of Old English (closely related to German and Dutch), Danish, Norse, and French, and has been influenced by Latin, Greek, Chinese, Hindi, Japanese, and Spanish, and more words from even more languages. The historical stature of the British Empire has contributed to the spread of the English language. English is an important language in many places today, for example in Australia, Canada, Hong Kong, the Republic of India and Pakistan, South Africa, and the United States, English is a dominant language. Because the United Kingdom (the country in which England is located) and the United States have historically been economically and politically powerful, many people find it helpful to learn English to communicate in science, business, and diplomacy. This is referred to as learning English as an additional language, English as a Second Language (ESL) or English as a Foreign Language (EFL). Many famous stories and plays are in English. Shakespeare was a famous English writer of poems and plays. Today, many famous songs and movies (cinema films) use the English language.  
William Shakespeare	William Shakespeare (April, 1564 - April 23, 1616) was an English writer. He wrote plays and also some poetry. Many people consider him to be the greatest English writer of all time and one of the greatest in the world. He wrote plays about history and tragedy and he wrote comedies. His poetry and plays are about being human, with feelings such as love, jealousy, anger, and much more. Children learn about him in schools around the world. Shakespeare wrote his works between about 1590 and 1613. Who wrote "Shakespeare"? About 150 years after Shakespeare died, some writers began to say that the works we call "Shakespeare" were not really written by William Shakespeare. They had various reasons for saying this. For example, the person who wrote "Shakespeare" knew a lot about other countries (especially Italy), but William Shakespeare never left England as far as we know. Several other writers of "Shakespeare" have been suggested, such as Francis Bacon, Christopher Marlowe, and Edward de Vere, Earl of Oxford. Most scholars believe that William Shakespeare did write the works that bear his name, but the idea that someone else "wrote Shakespeare" still gets discussed a lot.  
Trier	Trier is a city at the Moselle River in Rhineland-Palatinate in Germany. The population is about 100,000. Trier is famous for some Roman buildings like the Porta Nigra and others. It is famous as the birthplace of Karl Marx. Trier is also famous for the wine of the wine-growing-region Mosel-Saar-Ruwer.  
Computer network	Computers can be part of several different networks. Networks can also be parts of bigger networks. The "local area network" in a department store is usually connected to the "corporate network" of the parent company, and may have privileges with the corporate network of a bank. Any connected machine at any level of the organization may be able to access the "Internet", for example to demonstrate computers in the store, display its catalogue through a web server, or convert received orders into shipping instructions. Microsoft Windows, Linux and most other operating systems use IP for networking. Apple Macintosh computers used Appletalk in the past, but it uses IP now.  
Turkey	Turkey (Turkish: "Türkiye" "also known as Anatolia") is a country in both Europe and Asia. The area of Turkey is about 780,000 square kilometres. Its population is about 71 million. Turkey's official language is Turkish. Turkey is a republic. There are 81 cities in Turkey. The Turkish money is New Turkish Lira ("Yeni Türk Lirası" or YTL). The capital city is Ankara, a city in the central Anatolia. The cultural and economic center is Istanbul. In the past Istanbul was known as Constantinople. Turkey was founded in 1923 by Atatürk after the war of independence ("Kurtuluş Savaşı"). Before that, Turkish Republic was part of the Ottoman Empire. Atatürk made many changes that made Turkey more modern. Because of its place, in history the land has been home to many civilizations, like the Hittites and the Byzantine Roman Empire. Many important events in the history of Christianity happened in Turkey. Modern Turkey has a strong economy. It has 7th largest army (4th largest ground army) in the world. Its warm climate lets many kinds of food crops grow, and livestock and forestry are important industries. Turkey is one of the countries in the world that can make enough food to feed itself. There is a strong manufacturing sector making airplanes, electronics, cars, clothing and textiles for home and for other countries. These days, Turkey is a popular place for tourists to visit. It has hundreds of kilometres of beautiful beaches on its Aegean and Mediterranean coasts, and many important historical places. Religion. About 99% of Turkey's people are Muslim. Many are Sunni Muslims, and some are Alevi Muslims (which is part of Shi'a Islam). There are also a few Christian and Jewish people living in Turkey. Turkey is a secular country, meaning it is not religious, and the government does not present a religion. Everyone has the right to practice their religion freely in the country, however there are some restrictions. People are not allowed to wear the Muslim headscarf in schools or important buildings. European Union. Turkey wants to join the European Union (EU). The EU says that before Turkey can join, it must resolve its human rights issues first, and also bring its economical and political system to equal that of the EU. But some say that the reason that Turkey was denied membership was because of its 99% muslim majority. Economy. The economy of Turkey develops every year.Turkey is a member of OECD and G-20. Export. Turkey`s exports amounted to 73.5 billion dollars in 2005. In 2007 exports grew to 106 billion dollars. By May 2008 the exports of the previous year had reached more than 110 billion dollars. Language. The sole official language in Turkey is Turkish. It belongs to the Turkic language group, which also includes many other languages spoken across Asia, such as Azerbaijani and Tatar. In Turkey there are also minorities who speak languages such as Kurdish, Armenian, Greek or Ladino, to name just a few. Turkish lira. The national currency of Turkey is the New Turkish lira, but on January 1, 2009 the word "new" will be deleted from the name of the currency. 1 Dollar = 1.18 New Turkish Liras (16 August 2008) 1 Euro = 1.73 New Turkish Liras (16 August 2008) 1 Pound = 2.21 New Turkish Liras (16 August 2008)  
Thomm	Thomm is a village near Trier (at the Moselle River) in Rhineland-Palatinate in Germany. Thomm is famous for an old celtic stone, called "Hinkelstein" near the village and a big celtic grave. In further times there was a slate minor industry near Thomm. Thomm is also famous for its cider, an apple-wine. The European Hill Climb Championship comes at June to Thomm and the FIA World Rally Championship in August every year.  
Moselle River	The Moselle River (german Mosel; french Moselle) is a river in France and Luxembourg, that becomes part of the Rhine River after the Moselle flows into Germany. The length is 545 kilometers (341 miles). Important cities at the Moselle river are Metz, Thionville, Trier, Bernkastel-Kues and Koblenz. The valley of the Moselle river is famous for the wine of Elbling, Riesling, and Müller-Thurgau - grapes in the wine growing region Moselle-Saar-Ruwer. Tributaries. Esch, Rupt de Mad, Orne, Fensch, Gander, Salm, Lieser, Alf, Brohlbach, Meurthe, Saar, Olewiger Bach, Ruwer, Feller Bach, Dhron, Kautenbach, Altlayer Bach, Ehrbach.  
Bible	The Bible is a collection of stories of different authors. The stories were written over a period of about 1200 years. The followers of Judaism, or Christianity consider some of the stories sacred. Islam sees the stories as a valid source of truth. According to Islam, the accounts have been spoiled though, and the Koran gives a better example. There are different versions of the Bible. The differences are about what parts should be included, and which ones are left out. All Christians believe that it contains the word of God. Sometimes different churches disagree over exactly what the Bible means. There are many names for the Bible; some call it "Holy Scripture", "Holy Writ" or the "Good Book". The Bible was written long ago in Hebrew, Aramaic, and Greek, and translations were made later into Latin and some other languages. Now there are translations in many more languages, for example, English. Today, a complete version of the bible exists in 429 languages. Parts have been translated in 2429 languages. Most bibles can be found in the British Museum in London. Old Testament. In fact the Bible is many books of different kinds collected together. The first part is called the Old Testament or Tanakh. This tells the story of the Israelites and how God chose them to be called "his people". This part of the Bible is considered to be holy by Jews as well as Christians. There are a few parts of the Old Testament that Christians disagree about. These parts are called Deuterocanonical by those Churches that accept them as part of the Bible, and Apocrypha by those that do not. New Testament. The second part is called the New Testament, most of which was written first in Greek. Some was probably written in Aramaic first, but the oldest copies known today are in Greek. The main part of this book is the story of Jesus Christ's life. There are four different versions of the story, called Gospels. The New Testament also contains letters by early Christian leaders, especially Saint Paul. The verse in the bible that defines Christianity is, "For God so loved the world that he gave his only begotten Son that whoever believes in him shall not perish but live eternally" The "Bible" contains different kinds of books. Some are history, telling the stories of the Jews, or Jesus. Some are collections of wise sayings. Some are God's commands to his people, which he expects them to obey. Some are songs of praise to God. Some are books of "prophecy", messages from God that he gave through chosen people called prophets. The "Bible" has been translated into over 2000 languages. It can be found in printed, electronic, and audio copies. Many people, not only Christians, love reading the Bible, and some prefer doing it daily. Others spend a lot of their time on in-depth Bible study or meditation on the words. Atheists do not believe God inspired men to write the Bible because of what they say are conflicts with modern science.  
Bavaria	Bavaria (German: "Bayern") is a State ("Bundesland") of Germany. The territory of this state is the largest of the 16 states. The National capital is Munich with 1,3 million people. About 12,5 million people live in Bavaria. Structure. Bavaria has seven parts: Oberbayern (Upper Bavaria), Niederbayern (Lower Bavaria), Schwaben (Swabia), Mittelfranken (Middle Franconia), Unterfranken (Lower Franconia), Oberfranken (Upper Franconia) and Oberpfalz (Upper Palatinate). Bavaria has 71 smaller parts and 25 free cities. The highest point is the Zugspitze, which is also the highest mountain in Germany. Munich is the largest city, the second biggest city is Nuremberg ("Nürnberg"), which is famous for its gingerbread, a kind of Christmas bread. Pope Benedict XVI was born in Bavaria.  
Rome	Rome (Italian "Roma") is the capital city of Italy and the Italian region Latium. It is located on the Tiber river and has 2.8 million inhabitants. The enclave Vatican City is in the north-west. According to legend, Rome was founded on April 21, 753 BC, by Romulus. He killed his twin brother named Remus, with whom he had been raised by a wolf, and became the first king of Rome. Rome was the center of the Roman kingdom, later of the Roman Republic, then of the Roman Empire. Education. Rome is an educational place in Italy. The children in Rome have to start school at the age of six and 14. This takes them to the end of Junior High School. Rome has the biggest university in Italy and it is named University of Rome. It was founded in 1303. About 200,000 students go to study at this University. Transport. Rome has an airport, which is named the Leonardo Da Vinci International Airport (IATA: FCO). See also. Ancient Rome  
Carnivore	A carnivore is an animal that eats mostly meat. Dogs and cats are carnivores. The word "Carnivora" comes from Latin, where "Carne" means "flesh" or "meat", and "Vorare" is a verb meaning "eat", that is "meat-eater". "Scavengers" are carnivores that eat other animals which they did not kill themselves and which have been dead for a time. Carnivores that eat mainly or only insects are called "insectivores". Carnivores that eat mainly or only fish are called "piscivores". The word "Carnivore" also can mean any animal in the scientific order Carnivora. Most animals in Carnivora eat meat, but some do not.  
Cologne	Cologne (or sometimes "Kölle") is a city on the Rhine River in the state of North Rhine-Westphalia Germany. About 970,000 people live there. The city was founded by the Romans in the year 50, but before that, it was a Roman castle ("castellum") and a town with inhabitants of the local German tribe named "Ubier" at least for 100 years.. There had been people living in the area during stone age. The most interesting thing to see there is Cologne Cathedral. This church was built from about 1248 to about 1550, but finally finished in 1880. The United Nations list it as 'World Cultural Heritage'. Cologne's archbishop Rainald von Dassel brought the relics of the biblical Three Wise Men there in 1164. They are kept in a very beautiful golden shrine Three golden crowns in the coat of arms of the city symbolize them. They made Cologne a major place of pilgrimage. Traditionally, the city was always Roman Catholic. That changed only recently after the Second World War, as a result of massive immigration of protestants from the East of Germany. Still the majority of 41,6% is Roman Catholic, compared to 17% Protestant. 10% of the population are muslim Cologne is the biggest city in North Rhine-Westphalia. The University of Cologne alone has more than 50,000 students. It was founded 1919 and is one of the biggest in Germany. There are several specialized Schools in addition to the university. The "Hochschule für Musik" is the biggest Academy of Music in Europe. Cologne has two Colleges of Arts and the Sports College again is one of the biggest worldwide. Cologne has one of the busiest train stations in Europe. It is the only train station located next to a big cathedral. People in Cologne and nearby have their own language. They call it Kölsch. During carnival time it even appears on nationwide broadcasts. Cologne has a handful of broadcasting stations. The Westdeutscher Rundfunk, part of the network ARD, is the biggest producer of television and radio programs in Germany. Cologne is in the southern part of the 'Rhine-Ruhr agglomeration' of cities, where there live about 10 million people. This is one of the most densely populated areas of the world.  
Senegal	The Republic of Senegal (French "République du Sénégal") is a nation in West Africa. The capital is Dakar. Geography. In the north of Senegal is the Senegal River. To the north of the river is Mauritania. The nation borders Mali in the east, Guinea-Bissau in the south, and Guinea in the south-east. The Gambia is another country inside of Senegal, along the Gambia River. It is about 300 km long. The north of Senegal is part of the Sahel. The highest mountain is 581 m high. The rainy season is between June and October. The average temperature on the coast is about 24° C, and inland about 27° C. History. In the 15th century, Portuguese people came to Gorée Island off the coast of Dakar. In the 17th century, French people and Dutch people came there, too. These European countries used the island as a trading post in slaves from the mainland, controlled by the Muslim Wolof Empires. Slavery was later made illegal by France, but soon after, around 1850, the French started to conquer the Wolof. By 1902 Senegal was a part of the French colony French West Africa. In January 1959, Senegal and the French Sudan became one to form the Mali Federation, which became fully independent on June 20, 1960, as a result of the independence and transfer of power agreement signed with France on April 4, 1960. This did not last long and Senegal and Mali broke apart into separate nations. Between 1982 and 1989 Senegal and The Gambia joined together to make Senegambia.  
Developmental biology	Developmental biology is the study of the process by which organisms grow and develop.  
Outer space	Space, also known as the outer space, is the vacuum that all of the planets, stars, galaxies and other objects are in. The planet Earth is in space, and so are all the other stars and planets in the Universe. Space can be thought of as a three dimensional grid in which everything moves about. Everything that exists there is exposed to it, even if it's inside something else. You are exposed to space and are moving through it. How far space reaches is unknown, as the distant edges of the universe have not been examined yet. According to the big bang theory, not even space existed before the universe was created. After the big bang, space expanded outwards to give rise to the vast expanse that is known today. Space, just like physical objects, can be altered. The force which alters space is gravity, and some scientists have guessed that powerful rings of light can also bend space. When space is warped, it can be traveled through in a shorter amount of time relative to the unwarped portion. Scientists have learned with technology that space seems to be made of nothing, so only energy that acts like a particle can travel through it. Examples of energy that behave like particles are light, and x-rays. To compare, sound cannot travel through space because there is nothing there for the energy to move through.  
Natural satellite	A natural satellite is simply called a moon. A moon is a large, usually ball-shaped object that goes around (orbits) a planet. The Earth has only one moon. Some other planets have many moons, and some have none. When people write just "the" moon", they are usually talking about the moon of the Earth. Often Earth's moon is written with a capital letter, like Moon. The Latin word for the moon is "Luna", which is why the word used to talk about the moon is "Lunar". For example, lunar eclipse. Anything that goes around a planet is called a satellite. Moons are natural satellites. People also use rockets to send machines into orbit around the Earth. These machines are called artificial (man-made) satellites. They help us to communicate, the telephones and televisions need these satellites. Earth's moon. Moons do not make their own light. We can see the Earth's moon because it acts like a mirror, and reflects the light of the Sun. The same half of the moon faces toward Earth at all times, no matter where it moves. But different parts of the moon are lit up by the Sun, so it looks different at different times of the month. This change as seen from Earth is called the phases of the moon, or lunar phases. A moon's cycle is the time the moon takes to change from looking very bright and round to looking very small and thin, and then back to bright and round again. In the case of the Earth's moon, this is about four weeks. It does this about 13 times in one year. The moon's cycle is about 28 days, a bit shorter than a calendar month. The Apollo 11 mission helped Neil Armstrong and Buzz Aldrin become the first people to walk on the Moon. They did this in July 20, 1969. Orbits. The orbit of a moon or other satellite is affected by two forces: gravity, and the centripetal force. For example, the Earth's moon is kept in orbit by the gravitational pull from the Earth. This is also the way the Earth is attracted to the Sun, and stays in its orbit. The orbit of the Earth's moon actually causes the tides and waves on Earth. Moons of moons. No moons that belong to moons have been found. In most cases, the tidal effects of the main body would make such as unstable. However, math completed after the recent finding of a possible ring system around Saturn's moon Rhea show that Rhean orbits would be stable. Also, the rings are thought to be narrow, something that is known with shepherd moons. Asteroid moons. The finding of 243 Ida's moon Dactyl in the early 1990s was the proof that some asteroids have moons; indeed, 87 Sylvia has two. Some, such as 90 Antiope, are double asteroids with two same-sized parts. Moons of the Solar System. The biggest moons in the Solar System (those bigger than about 3000 km across) are Earth's moon, Jupiter's Galilean moons (Io, Europa, Ganymede, and Callisto), Saturn's moon Titan, and Neptune's captured moon Triton. The following is a table grouping the moons of the solar system by diameter. The column on the right has some notable planets, dwarf planets, asteroids, and Trans-Neptunian Objects for comparing. It is normal for moons to be named after people from mythology.  
Gravity	Gravity is a force. It makes things move toward each other. On the Earth, we see that it makes things fall toward the ground. Gravity may be caused by a theoretical particle known as a graviton. We say that things that are pulled by gravity have mass. The larger the masses, the bigger the pull of gravity. The farther apart the things are, the smaller the pull of gravity. On the Earth, we can measure the pull of the Earth's gravity on something as weight. But, the pull of gravity from the Moon is only about 1/6 the pull of gravity from the Earth. So, an object will have the same mass on the Moon as it will on the Earth, but because of the Moon's smaller gravitational pull (that is, its smaller force) the object will weigh less on the Moon. Things that are falling still have mass, but we cannot measure their weight, so we say that they are "weightless". Astronauts and spacecraft in outer space can be weightless. They look like they are floating. Really they are falling in an orbit around the Earth. They still have mass, so we still have to push them or pull them to make them go or stop. Astronauts inside spacecraft use their arms and legs to jump or to stop. When astronauts are working outside in space, they use very small rockets to move. Spacecraft use bigger rockets to move. Sir Isaac Newton is said to have discovered gravity when he saw an apple fall from a tree. He wondered what made this happen.  
Centripetal force	Centripetal force (or acceleration) is a type of force that acts on any body that revolves around a centre. (circular motion). This force contributes to keeping the body in circular motion. This force is always directed towards the centre. The opposite force (by Isaac Newton's third law of motion) is called centrifugal force. This is the force that acts on the body in a direction away from the centre, which contributes to making the body try to fly away. When you hold a rope with an heavy object attached to it, and rotate it around, the rope becomes taut and keeps the body from flying away. This is caused by centripetal force.  
Treaty	A treaty is a written agreement between two countries. Two countries might agree to stop a war, allow each others citizens to cross borders freely, or declare war on a common enemy. Treaties are usually used to settle arguments.  
Luxembourg	Luxembourg is a country in Europe. It is a small country. It was one of the first countries in the European Union. The countries next to Luxembourg are Belgium, Germany, and France. Its population is 442,972. Government. Luxembourg is a parliamentary democracy headed by a constitutional monarch. Under the constitution of 1868, executive power is in the hands of the Governor and the cabinet, which consists of several other ministers. Districts, cantons, and communes. Luxembourg is divided into 3 districts, which are further divided into 12 cantons and then 116 communes. Twelve of the communes have city status, of which the city of Luxembourg is the largest. Districts. 1. Diekirch 2. Grevenmacher 3. Luxembourg  
Baden-Württemberg	Baden-Württemberg is a federal state in Germany. It has an area of 35 752 km² and a population of nearly 11 million people. The capital is Stuttgart. The Minister President is Günther Oettinger of the (CDU). It is the third biggest state in Germany. Only Bavaria and North Rhine-Westphalia have more people living there. The federal state is located in the southwest of Germany. It shares borders to the east with the state of Bavaria, to the north with the states of Hesse and Rhineland-Palatinate, to the west with the country of France (along the River Rhine) and to the south with the countries Switzerland and Austria. History. In 1952, the three states of Baden, Württemberg-Baden and Württemberg-Hohenzollern joined together to found Baden-Württemberg. Politics. The Minister President is the chief of the government of Baden-Württemberg. The government is made up of ministers and state secretaries. Baden-Württemberg is a conservative minded state. The CDU is the main political party in the state, and since 1953, the Ministers President have all been members of the CDU. Between the years 1972 and 1992, the members of the Landtag of Baden-Württemberg were mostly members of the CDU. But the state is also a stronghold of the "Grünen" which were founded in the early 1980s in Karlsruhe. The election results of the Grünen in Baden-Württemberg have always been above the election average for the party in Germany. Tourism. The Black forest, the Swabian Alb and the Lake Constance are world famous holiday regions. The highest mountain is the Feldberg (1492m). Other important cities in Baden-Württemberg besides the capital city of Stuttgart are: Freiburg, Heidelberg, Rastatt, Karlsruhe, Mannheim, Ulm and Heilbronn. The Danube, the Neckar and the Rhine are important rivers which are located in the state. Religion. In the northern part of Württemberg and the Kurpfalz the majority are Protestants. But the other parts of the state, especially the south, the majority are Roman Catholics. Sports. Football is the most popular sport in Baden-Württemberg. The best clubs are the VfB Stuttgart and the Karlsruher SC (Karlsruher SC or KSC).  
Vienna	Vienna (in German: "Wien") is the capital city of Austria. It is in the east of the country on the river Danube. More than 1 million 6 hundred thousand people live there. It is the largest city of Austria. It is also an administrative district ("Bundesland") of its own. Culture. There are many old buildings, churches and museums in the city centre. Classical music and opera are popular in Vienna. The composers Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart, Ludwig van Beethoven and Brahms all worked in Vienna. Vivaldi also died in Vienna. Vienna is also the name of a song about the city, by the British group Ultravox. Vienna is the Home of the national successful Soccer-Clubs SK Rapid Wien and FK Austria Magna.  
Telescope	A telescope is an important tool for astronomy. The telescope gathers and focuses light. Telescopes make things seem bigger and brighter. Galileo was the first person to use a telescope for astronomy, but he did not invent them. Telescopes not used for astronomy can be named "transits", "spotting scopes", "monoculars", "binoculars," "camera lenses", or "spyglasses". The word "telescope" is usually used for light your eyes can see, but there are telescopes for "invisible" light. Infrared telescopes look like normal telescopes, but have to be kept cold since infrared light is heat. Radio telescopes are like radio antennas, usually shaped like large dishes. X-ray and gamma-ray telescopes have a problem because the rays go through most metals and glasses. To solve this problem, they are shaped like a bunch of rings inside each other. The first telescope was invented in the Netherlands in 1608.  
Homonym	A homonym is a word that sounds the same but has more than one meaning and is spelt differently. For example, right means moral, the opposite of left, and a personal freedom. There are two kinds of homonyms: homophones (they sound the same) and homographs (they look the same).  
Principal	A principal is a person who is in charge of something. The person can be in charge of a school, or a research project, or a business setting.  
Peru	Peru is a country in South America. The capital is Lima. The ruins of Machu Picchu, the Andes mountains, and the source of the Amazon River are all found in Peru. The main language is Spanish, but other languages, including Quechua and Aymara are also spoken. Peru is bordered to the north by Ecuador and Colombia, to the east by Brazil, and to the south by Chile and Bolivia. Peru was ruled by the Inca civilization until the Spanish arrived in 1531. Peru was a colony of Spain until 1821. Peru suffered a terrible guerrilla war in the 1980s. The communist (Maoist)Shining Path tried to take over the country. But after the leader of the group was captured in 1992, Shining Path was not a threat anymore. During the 1990s, it was ruled by President Alberto Fujimori. During this time, the economy of Peru got better, and it became easier to start a company or operate a business. After Fujimori, Alejandro Toledo was elected President, and then Alan Garcia, who was President from 1985 to 1990, was elected again in 2006. Peru's most important exports (products that it sells to other countries) are fish, gold and other metals, oil, coffee, sugar, and cotton. Also, the food in Peru is very diverse, including typical dishes like Ceviche and Broiled Chicken. Tourists from other countries like to come to Peru because of the history and also to enjoy nature. Many people come to climb mountains in the Cordillera Blanca in the Ancash Region, and many people visit Peru's long Pacific coast or the Amazon jungle. Cuzco and Macchu Picchu are just two of the places where many buildings built by the Incas are still standing after hundreds of years, and these are some of the most visited places. The Incas were not the only tribe in Peru who left buildings and artifacts, but they were the most powerful. Peru is divided into 25 regions. Lima is the capital and other main regions are Cuzco, Arequipa and Lambayeque. In the Amazon jungle region, we can find many important rivers and different animals, plants and people of many indigenous cultures. The currency of Peru is the Nuevo Sol.  
States of Germany	Germany has 16 states (). The biggest is Bavaria and the smallest is Bremen. Most of them were created after the Second World War, although their historical roots can be traced back to the early Middle Ages in some cases.  
Munich	Munich () is the third biggest city of Germany (after Berlin and Hamburg), and the capital of Bavaria. It has a population of 1,320,000. The metropolitan area of Munich includes the city itself, and all the suburbs around it, and has about 2.6 million people in it. It is one of the most important centres of economy in Germany. People of Munich. The official population of Munich city proper at 310.43 km^2 is 1,356,594 inhabitants only with principal residence as of 31.12.2007. 176,000 inhabitants with secondary residence also live in administrative city limits but they are not calculated in this official census. According to some estimates that population counts around 200,000 people. Fast growing Munich urban area has 2,667,000 inhabitants (by 2008. estimate). Munich city proper with all suburbs at 12,000 km^2 has 4,700,000 inhabitants and Munich metropolitan region that covers 27,700 km^2 and includes Augsburg,Ingolstadt,Landshut,Rosenheim and Landsberg has around 6,000,000 inhabitants. Munich is the 12th city in EU by population within city limits and the 14th largest urban area in Europe. Its metropolitan area ranks among largest metro areas in Europe. About 60% of the people in Munich are Catholic, about 20% are Protestant, and about 7% belong to other religious groups. The other 13% have no religion. Airport. Munich Airport - Franz Joseph Strauss (IATA: MUC, ICAO: EDDM) Public Transportation. Munich has one of the most comprehensive systems in the world. There are subways, suburban trains, trams and buses. There might be built a Transrapid from the city center to the airport. Boroughs. Munich has 25 boroughs (Bezirke in German, also sometimes called districts in English). Colleges and universities. Munich's universities are known for their high ranking in Germany.  
Berlin	Berlin is the capital city of Germany. It is also the biggest city in Germany. About 3,400,000 people live there. (In the year 1943 there were over 4,500,000 people). The city is in the eastern part of Germany. It is about west of Poland. Berlin has an area of. The river Spree runs through Berlin. Berlin is home to many famous buildings, like the Siegessäule, the Brandenburger Tor, the Reichstag and the boulevard Unter den Linden. On the boulevard are the Humboldt University and the State Opera of Berlin. The Governing Mayor of the city is Klaus Wowereit (SPD). Berlin was divided into West Berlin and East Berlin after World War II. After the Berlin Wall was built in 1961 very few people were allowed to cross from West Berlin into East Berlin. The wall divided the city until 1989 when the East German government decided to allow anyone to cross, and people decided to destroy the wall. Boroughs of Berlin. In 2001 the 23 boroughs of Berlin were changed into 12 Sister cities. Berlin has partnerships with 17 cities. Each of the 12 boroughs also has their sister cities, sometimes called twin cities.  
1940s	The 1940's happened in the 20th century, forty years after year 1900.  
Hamburg	Hamburg or in full Free and Hanseatic City of Hamburg (), is a city in the north of Germany on the banks of the River Elbe, 180 km away from the North Sea. With a population of about 1.73 million (1730000) it is the biggest German city after Berlin and the sixth largest city of the European Union. The religion is about 37 % Protestant, 10 % Catholic, 8 % Muslim, 38 % agnostic, 2% Pagan. The area of Hamburg is. Since it was an important member of the Hanseatic League, the city's official name still includes "Hansestadt" (Hanseatic city). Other German cities that do the same today are: Lübeck, Rostock, Wismar, Stralsund, Bremen, Greifswald and Demmin. The membership in this trade alliance has influenced the architecture of the city to a great extent. It has also left some marks in the region around the city. Economy. Hamburg's harbour is, by shipments, the second largest harbour in Europe and among the ten largest in the world. It is a very important gate to the countries along the Baltic Sea and Eastern Europe. The company Airbus has an assembly plant for large civil aircrafts in Hamburg. 30,000 people are employed in Hamburg's aircraft industries. There are only two other locations world-wide in this scale, Seattle in the United States and Toulouse in France. About half of Germany's nation-wide newspapers and magazines are made in Hamburg. Germany's most-viewed television news "Tagesschau" is broadcast from Hamburg.  
Emphysema	Emphysema is a disease of the lungs. It happens when the little air sacs at the ends of your airways in your lungs start to break down. People with emphysema may find it hard to breathe because they trap air in their lungs and have a hard time getting air out of their lungs. Emphysema is one of the diseases referred to as a Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease (COPD). The other disease is chronic bronchitis. Most people get emphysema through smoking. As emphysema progresses over the years, patients with emphysema may find it increasingly difficult to climb inclines and stairs, exercise vigorously, and do physical activities at the pace of those with healthy lungs. Emphysema patients may also need extra oxygen if their lungs are not able to get enough oxygen from their lungs to the rest of the body. People who suffer from emphysema may have swollen legs. This is due to a build up of fluid in the legs (which also may happen in the lungs). Severe cases of emphysema require hospital treatment but there is little they can do to help. The damage cannot be reversed.  
Oxygen	Oxygen (O) is a chemical element. It is one of the gases found in the air. It has no color or smell and cannot be seen. It supports life--animals (including humans) need oxygen to live. The purpose of breathing is to get a fresh supply of oxygen into the body. Oxygen also helps burning. When an oxygen atom forms a molecule with two hydrogen atoms, it becomes Water (H2O). Water is something that all animals need to live. Oxygen was discovered in 1772 by Joseph Priestley. The word oxygen comes from Greek words: oxus (acid) and gennan (generate). Use of oxygen gas. One of the most common is in use under welding, where it is mixed with acetylene to get a very hot flame. Another use is using it in space rockets, as an oxidizer together with the rocket fuel, (hydrogen or hydrazine) to create powerful combustion and propel the rocket forwards at great speeds. Use of liquid oxygen may be problematic because it is so cold- it may cause pipes to freeze or rubber to become porous. It does not burn by itself, but it is what drives a combustion. It is therefore quite dangerous when operating it, as if it leaks a spark or hot part may ignite an explosion. Production of gas. Pure oxygen can be produced in several ways; one is through electrolysis of water to yield O2 and H2 gas. In nature, plants produce it in chlorophyll in their cells from CO2 and water, and with solar energy it reacts to O2 and C6H12O6 (which builds up cellulose molecules.)  
Blood	Blood is a liquid found in humans and most animals. Blood is pushed through the organism by the heart. Blood brings nutrients and oxygen to our tissues. Blood also takes away waste and carbon dioxide from tissues. Blood is made up of blood plasma and various cells — red blood cells, white blood cells and platelets. Plasma. Plasma that does not contain the protein fibrinogen is called serum. Adults have about 3 REF: My Biology Teacher Mr R. Williams liters of Plasma. Plasma is a liquid, mostly water (90%) in blood plasma takes up 60%. Plasma is part of blood types. Red blood cells. Red blood cells carry oxygen and carbon dioxide around our body. Cells in our body need oxygen to live. Cells also make carbon dioxide as a waste. Red blood cells bring more oxygen around the body. They also take away the carbon dioxide. Another name for red blood cell is "erythrocyte". Erythro means red. -Cyte means cell. RBC is an acronym for red blood cell. RBCs are filled with hemoglobin. This is a protein. It is made to carry a large amount of oxygen. Hemoglobin has iron in it. The iron and oxygen gives hemoglobin its red color. This is why blood is red. Erythropoietin promotes the creation of red blood cells. RBCs also help the blood stay normal pH. The blood needs a to be at a pH of 7.4. If it is much more or less than 7.4 a person can get very sick or die. RBCs are a buffer for the blood pH. Buffer means that it stops changes in pH. The proteins and the carbon dioxide in the RBC are buffers for the blood. White blood cells. White blood cells are a big part of the immune system. White blood cells kill things that do not belong in the body. They kill germs such as bacteria and viruses. They kill cancer cells. White blood cells also help to fight other toxic substances. Another name for white blood cell is leukocyte. Leuko means white. -Cyte means cell. WBC is an acronym for white blood cell. WBCs do their job different ways. Some WBCs kill and eat germs and cancer cells. Some WBCs make antibodies. These are proteins that stick to a cell and tell other WBCs to kill it. Some WBCs make chemicals. They release these chemical to fight things that do not belong in the body. These chemicals cause inflammation in a part of the body. When a germ makes someone sick, the body shows it. If a bacteria gets under someone's skin and causes an infection, the skin gets red, hot, and painful. This redness, heat, and pain are signs of "inflammation". This shows that WBCs are fighting the infection and killing the bacteria. WBCs live in the blood. But they also go out of the blood too. WBCs are in lymph nodes. They also go out of the blood in places where there is infection. WBCs do this to fight the germs that make the infection. Platelets. Platelets help make blood clot. A clot is when the liquid blood becomes solid. The body makes blood clot when the skin is cut. This stops blood from going out of the skin too much. Platelets can also cause problems. Blood clots are good sometimes. But some blood clots are bad. If a blood clot happens in a blood vessel going to the brain, it can cause a stroke. If it happens in a blood vessel going to the heart, it can cause a heart attack. Platelets are not the only things that make clots. There are proteins in the blood that help make clots. Both platelets and "clotting proteins" are needed to make good clots. Where does blood come from? Blood cells are made in the bone marrow. This is the liquid in the middle of bones. Special cells in the bone marrow make all of the blood cells in your body. Plasma proteins are made mostly by the liver. The water and electrolytes in plasma come from the food and water that you eat.  
1980s	The 1980s is the ten years from January 1, 1980 to December 31, 1989. This decade (group of ten years) is sometimes called the "Greed decade" in English speaking countries. Unlike the 1960s and 1970s, this is when the word "yuppie" was used to describe "young urban professionals" - young adults who lived in cities and started to get good jobs. This was also the rise of a more conservative period in these countries - Ronald Reagan was president for most of this time in the United States, Margaret Thatcher was the Prime Minister of the United Kingdom, and Brian Mulroney was Prime Minister of Canada. This decade also saw the Soviet Union fight a war that seemed endless in Afghanistan, civil war in Ethiopia, and the fall of the Berlin Wall which started the end of the Cold War and of Communism in Eastern Europe. The "eighties" are also well known for their extreme fashions, such as "big hair", New Wave, punk rock, funk, or preppies. Rap music first started to get big in the 80s, and often went with breakdancing in what is now called the "old school" days. Many developments were also made in computer technology during these years, and video games became popular.  
North Rhine-Westphalia	North Rhine-Westphalia () is the federal state (Bundesland) with the highest population in Germany. It is in the western part of Germany and has 18,033,000 inhabitants. The capital is Düsseldorf.  
Computer program	A computer program is something that tells a computer what to do. Computer programs can be installed onto a computer. A web browser can be used to browse the Internet. An office suite can be used to write documents or spreadsheets. Crackers can secretly use a computer virus to gain access to a user's computer. Mozilla Firefox and Internet Explorer are examples of computer programs. They are both web browsers, which means that the user can view web pages using them. Adobe Flash is another example of a computer program. It allows the user to create animations or other computer programs. A computer program is stored as a file on the user's hard drive. When the user runs the program, the file is read and the processor reads the data in the file as a list of commands or instructions. The computer then does what the program tells it to do. A computer program is written by a programmer. It is very difficult to write in ones and zeroes, which is what the computer can read, so computer programmers write in a programming language. Once it is written, the programmer uses a compiler to turn it into a language that the computer can understand.  
Data	The word data means "pieces of information". Types of data include numbers, words, sounds, and images. "see also data processing, data mining, Data Warehouse, datasheet, Computer program" "This article (or an earlier version of it) contains material from FOLDOC, used with permission."  
Stuttgart	Stuttgart is a city in Germany. It is the capital of the stateof Baden-Württemberg and of the Administrative District of Stuttgart ("Regierungsbezirk"). Stuttgart is on the river Neckar and has 590,000 inhabitants. Stuttgart is currently the sixth largest German city and Stuttgart Region is the nation's third largest region. The city is divided into 23 city districts. Stuttgart is also the home of two car manufacturers: Mercedes Benz and Porsche. Porsche is located at Zuffenhausen (North) and Mercedes at Untertürkheim (South-west).  
Schwerin	Schwerin is the capital city of the state of Mecklenburg-Western Pomerania. It has a population of 97,000. It is the second biggest city (behind Rostock) in the state. It is the smallest capital of a German state.  
Schwyz (canton)	Schwyz was one of the first cantons of Swiss canton ("Urkanton"). The capital is Schwyz and the main language is German (91%). It has an area of 908 km² and 130200 inhabitants. Schwyz is near to Lucerne. Districts and Municipalities. The Canton of Schwyz is divided into six districts and 30 municipalities, although the districts Einsiedeln, Küssnacht and Gersau simply contain the municipality of the same name.  
Russia	Russia (also the Russian Federation) is a country in Europe and Asia. By land area, it is the largest country in the world. The number of people living in the country is about 144,000,000. The Russian Federation is another name for Russia. Russia is now a democratic country. The president is chosen in direct elections, and its current President is Dmitry Medvedev. Its official language is Russian. History. The nation's history began when the East Slavs became a recognizable group in Europe between the 3rd and 8th centuries AD. The Vikings and their descendants founded and ruled the first East Slavic state of Kievan Rus' in the 9th century.They adopted Christianity from the Byzantine Empire in 988 which influenced Russian culture. Kievan Rus' eventually broke up and the lands were divided into many small feudal states. The most powerful successor state to Kievan Rus' was the Grand Duchy of Moscow. This served as the main force in the Russian reunification and struggle against the Golden Horde. Moscow slowly combined the surrounding Russian principalities and dominated the cultural and political legacy of Kievan Rus'. By the 18th century, the nation had expanded through conquest, annexation and exploration to become the Russian Empire. This was the third largest empire in history. It stretched from Poland eastward to the Pacific Ocean and Alaska. From 1922 to 1991 Russia was the largest part in the Soviet Union, or the "Union of Soviet Socialist Republics" (USSR). People sometimes used the name "Russia" for the whole Soviet Union. In reality, Russia was only one of 15 Soviet Socialist Republics and it named as Russian Soviet Socialist Republic. Before then, a king ruled Russia. This king was called a Tsar. In 1917, the Bolsheviks (later called "Communists") took over the country and murdered the tsar. The Soviet Union broke apart in 1990-1991. Russia became successor of Soviet Union. And because of that place of USSR in UN come to Russia. Geography. The capital and the biggest city is Moscow. The second biggest city is Saint Petersburg. Other cities in Russia with more than one million people are Literature. Russia contributed many famous literary works. Alexander Pushkin is considered a founder of modern Russian literature. He was a poet from the 19th century. Other famous poets and writers of the 19th century are Anton Chekhov, Mikhail Lermontov, Leo Tolstoy, Nikolai Gogol, Ivan Turgenev and Fyodor Dostoevsky. Ivan Goncharov, Mikhail Saltykov, Aleksey Pisemsky, and Nikolai Leskov. Tolstoy and Dostoevsky were considered by many critics as the greatest novelists ever. Sports. Since the 1952 Olympic Games, Soviet and later Russian athletes are in the top three in gold medals collected at the Summer Olympics. The 1980 Summer Olympic Games were held in Moscow while the 2014 Winter Olympics will be hosted by Sochi. Religion. The most common religion in Russia is Christianity. Most Christians in Russia belong to the Russian Orthodox Church. It is one of the Eastern Orthodox Churches.  
Moscow	Moscow (Russian language: Москва, Moskva) is the capital city of Russia. 10.5 million people live there, so it is Europe's biggest city. Moscow was founded by Prince Yuri Dolgoruki in 1147. From 1480 until 1703, Moscow was the capital of Russia. It became the capital again from 1918 until 1991. Now it is again the capital of Russia. In the middle of the city is an ancient walled city called the Kremlin. There are important government buildings, museums and churches in the Kremlin. Many of the buildings in Moscow, like St. Basil's Cathedral and Spasskaya Tower, are very beautiful and famous. There are also modern buildings there. There are many art galleries, and the collection of art there is so big that it could take three years to go around.  
St. Gallen (canton)	St. Gallen is a canton in Switzerland. St. Gallen is in the north-east corner of Switzerland. North of St. Gallen is the canton Thurgau. West of St. Gallen is Zürich. South of St. Gallen is Schwyz, Glarus, and Graubünden. East of St. Gallen are the countries Austria and Liechtenstein. The cantons Appenzell Innerrhoden and Appenzell Ausserrhoden are inside the canton St. Gallen (the canton St.Gallen sourrounds them). St. Gallen has been a Swiss canton since 1803. St. Gallen is near "Lake Constance". At the south of St. Gallen there are big mountains over 3000m high. The best known mountain in St. Gallen is the "Säntis", which is 2503m high. At the east of St. Gallen there is the river "Rhine". The people in St. Gallen speak German. There are about 455,000 people (2002) in the canton St. Gallen. It has an area of 2,026 km². The biggest town in St. Gallen is the town with the same name "St. Gallen". There are 70,000 people in the town St. Gallen.  
Canton	Canton can mean many different things.  
Saarland	Saarland is a Bundesland (state) of Germany. It has an area of and 1 065 000 inhabitants (2003). Saarland lies in the south-west of Germany, near the French border near Metz. The capital is Saarbrücken. History. In 1920, the Treaty of Versailles created Saarland from parts of the Prussian Rhine Province () and the Rhine Palatinate (). The area was put under the control of the League of Nations for 15 years. After a plebiscite (vote) in 1935, Germany got the land back. After World War II the Saarland came under French administration. Saarland was allowed its own government for most things in 1947 but not independent). Germany got the Saarland back in 1957 and it became a Bundesland. Geography. In the south is France, in the north-west Luxembourg and in the north and east is Rhineland-Palatinate.  
Iceland	Iceland (Icelandic: "Ísland") is a country in Europe. It is in the north of the Atlantic Ocean. Iceland is 300 kilometers east of Greenland and 1000 kilometers west of Norway. Iceland has an area of 39,769 square miles. History. The first people who lived on Iceland were Irish monks. They came to Iceland around the year 800. In the 9th century, the Vikings went to live on Iceland. The first Viking who lived on Iceland was Flóki Vilgerðarson. He was also the one who gave Iceland its name. Ingólfur Arnarson, a chieftain from Norway went to live in South West Iceland. He founded the city of Reykjavík. In 930, the Icelandic rulers wrote a constitution. They created the Althing, a kind of parliament in the town Þingvellir. Therefore Iceland is the oldest existing democracy. In 985, Erik the Red was sent away from the island because he had killed someone. He sailed to the west and discovered Greenland. Eric's son Leif Ericson discovered America in the year 1000. He called it Vinland. The voyages of Eric, Leif and others were written down in the sagas (long stories). In 1262, Iceland became part of Norway. In 1662 it became part of Denmark. In the 19th century, many Icelanders wanted to be independent from Denmark. In 1918, Iceland got many powers of its own, but the king of Denmark was still king of Iceland. When Germany took over Denmark on April 9 1940, the Althing decided that Icelanders should rule the country themselves, but they didn't declare independence yet. British and later American soldiers occupied Iceland to prevent it from being attacked by the Germans. In 1944 Iceland finally became fully independent. After World War II, Iceland became a member of the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation (NATO), but not of the European Union. Between 1958 and 1976 there were three debates between Iceland and the United Kingdom about the rights to catch codfish. They were called the Cod Wars. In 1980, Vigdís Finnbogadóttir was elected president of Iceland. She was the first woman ever to be elected president of a country. People. The people in Iceland are mostly of Scandinavian origin. The language they speak is Icelandic. The language has not changed much in 1,000 years, so Icelanders are still able to read the sagas about the Vikings without many problems. Most people in Iceland are Christian. Most of them are Lutheran. Names. There are no real surnames on Iceland. Children get the first name of their father (sometimes mother) with -son if it's a boy, and -dóttir if it's a daughter. For example, a man named Jón Stefánsson has a son named Fjalar. Fjalar's last name will not be Stefánsson like his father's, it will become Fjalar Jónsson. The same goes for women. Jón Stefánsson's daughter Kata would not have the last name Stefánsson, she would have the name Jónsdóttir. In most countries people use to call other people by their surname, but in Iceland people call other people by their first name. So when people talk about Halldór Ásgrímsson they do not call him Ásgrímsson, but Halldór. Towns and cities. Reykjavík is the capital city of Iceland. Reykjavík is also the most important port in Iceland. Other important towns in Iceland are Akureyri, Kópavogur, Hafnarfjördhur, Keflavík, and Vestmannaeyjar. Geography. Iceland is very geologically active and combined with large amounts of rain and snow caused by the warm waters of the gulf stream current which flow toward it, many interesting and unusual geographic features have developed which make it different from any other island so close to the Arctic Circle. Some of these features are Iceland's numerous mountains, volcanoes, hot springs, rivers, small lakes, waterfalls, glaciers, and geysers. The word geyser is, in fact, derived from Geysir, the name of a particularly famous geyser on the southern side of the island. Glaciers cover approximately 11% of the island and the largest, Vatnajökull, is up to 1 km thick and, by far, the largest glacier in Europe. Iceland, though considered to be a European country, sits partly in North America since it straddles the Mid-Atlantic Ridge which marks the boundary between the Eurasian and North American tectonic plates. The ridge runs directly through the populated Reykjavik and Thingvellir historic areas, and the tectonic activity of these plates separating is the source of the abundant geothermal energy in the region.  
Christianity	Christianity is a monotheistic religion (they only believe in one god). It is based on the life and teachings of Jesus of Nazareth. These can be found in the New Testament in the Bible. People that believe in Christianity are called Christians (Greek). They believe that Jesus was born the Son of God and the Messiah (Christ). His birth was prophesied many years before he was born, and can be found in the Old Testament. To Christians, Jesus Christ is a teacher and revealer of what the Christian God teaches. He is an example of how Christians should live. Christians consider him to be the saviour of all people, because he suffered, died, and was resurrected to allegedly save people from sin. Christians believe that Jesus ascended into heaven, and most Christian groups (denominations) believe that Jesus will return to Earth and judge everybody, both alive and dead, giving everlasting life to Christians. Christians call the message of Jesus Christ the Gospel ("good news"), that is why the first four books of the New Testament are called the gospels. Just like Judaism and Islam, Christianity is an Abrahamic religion. Christianity started out as a Jewish sect in the eastern Mediterranean. It quickly grew in number of believers and influence over a few decades, and by the 4th century had become the dominant religion in the Roman Empire. During the Middle Ages, the rest of Europe mostly was Christianized. At that time, Christians were mostly a religious minority in the Middle East, North Africa, and parts of India. Following the Age of Discovery, through missionary work and colonization, Christianity spread to the Americas and the rest of the world. Christianity has been an important part of the shaping of Western civilization, at least since the 4th century. As of the early 21st century, Christianity has between 1.5 billion and 2.1 billion followers, which is about a quarter of all people of Earth. Worship. Worship is thought by most Christians to be a very important part of Christianity all through its history. Many Christian theologians have called humanity "homo adorans", which means "worshipping man," and so the worship of God is at the very center of what it means to be human. This would mean that because God created all humanity, then Christians should worship and give praise God. Sacraments. In Christian belief and practice, a sacrament is a religious symbol or often a rite which shows divine grace, blessing, or sanctity for the Christian who does it. Examples of sacraments would be Baptism and the Mass." The word is taken from the Latin word "sacramentum", which was used to translate the Greek word for "mystery". The two most regularly used sacraments are Baptism and Eucharist (communion). But most Christians use seven Sacraments: Baptism, Confirmation, the Eucharist, Holy Orders, Reconciliation of a Penitent (confession), Anointing of the Sick, and Marriage. Some Christian denominations prefer to call them "ordinances". Liturgical calendar. Roman Catholics, Anglicans, Eastern Christians, and traditional Protestant groups center their worship around a liturgical calendar. Some events that are part of this calendar are the holy days, such as solemnities which honor an event in the life of Jesus or the saints, times of fasting such as Lent, and other events, such as memoria. Christian groups that do not follow a liturgical tradition often keep some celebrations, such as Christmas, Easter and Pentecost. A few churches do not even use a liturgical calendar. Christian beliefs. Even though Christians have many differences of beliefs and opinions, they share some beliefs that they believe are very important to their faith. Creeds. Creeds (from Latin "credo" meaning "I believe") are direct doctrinal statements or confessions, usually of religious beliefs. They started as baptismal formulas and were later became larger during the Christological controversies of the 4th and 5th centuries to become statements of faith. Most Christians (Roman Catholics, Protestants, and so on) accept the use of creeds, and often use at least one of the creeds given above. A smaller number of Protestants, notably Restorationists, a movement formed in the wake of the Second Great Awakening in the 19th century of the 19th century United States, oppose the use of creeds. Jesus Christ. The most basic part of Christianity is the belief in Jesus as the Son of God and Messiah (Christ). The title "Messiah" comes from the Hebrew word מָשִׁיחַ ("māšiáħ") meaning "anointed one". The Greek translation ("Christos") is the source of the English word "Christ". Christians believe that, as the Messiah, Jesus was anointed by God as ruler and savior of all people. Christians also believe that Jesus' coming was the fulfillment of messianic prophecies of the Old Testament. The Christian belief of the Messiah is much different than the contemporary Jewish concept. The main Christian belief is that, through the death and resurrection of Jesus, sinful humans can be reconciled to God. Though this, they believe they are given salvation and the promise of eternal life. There have been many theological disagreements over the nature of Jesus over the first centuries of Christian history. But Christians generally believe that Jesus is God incarnate and "true God and true man." Jesus, having become fully human, suffered the pain and temptations of a mortal man, but he did not sin. As fully God, he defeated death and came back to life again. According to the Bible, "God raised him from the dead," he ascended to heaven, is "seated at the right hand of the Father" and will return again to fulfill the rest of Messianic prophecy such as the Resurrection of the dead, the Last Judgment and the final creation of the Kingdom of God. From what the Gospels of Matthew and Luke say, Jesus was conceived by the Holy Spirit and born from the Virgin Mary. Only little of Jesus' childhood is written in the canonical Gospels, but infancy Gospels were popular in antiquity. But the time of Jesus' adulthood the week before his death are written much about in the Gospels. Some of the Biblical writings of of Jesus' ministry are: his baptism, miracles, preaching, teaching, and deeds. Death and resurrection of Jesus. Christians believe the the resurrection of Jesus to be the main part of their faith (see) and the most important event in human history, because it would show that that Jesus has power over death and have the authority to give people eternal life. Among Christian beliefs, the death and resurrection of Jesus are two main events of Christian doctrine and theology. From what the New Testament says, Jesus was crucified, died a physical death, was buried in a tomb, and came back from the dead three days later. The New Testament writes that several times Jesus appeared many times before his Twelve Apostles and disciples, and one time before "more than five hundred brethren at once," before Jesus' Ascension to heaven. Jesus' death and resurrection are remember by Christians in their worship services, and most commonly during Holy Week, which has Good Friday and Easter Sunday in the week. Most every Christian church believe and teach the New Testament writing of the resurrection of Jesus. Some liberal Christians do not accept a that Jesus came back from the dead, as they believe it to be a good symbolic and spiritual myth. Arguments over the death and resurrection of Jesus are very common at many religious debates and interfaith dialogues. Paul the Apostle, an early Christian convert and missionary, wrote, "If Christ was not raised, then all our preaching is useless, and your trust in God is useless." The Unitarian church is one of the few denominations where the resurrection of Jesus is not taught. Salvation. Protestantism teaches that eternal salvation is a gift that is given to a person by God's grace. It is sometimes called "unmerited favor." This would mean that Salvation is God bringing humans into a right relationship with God through faith in Jesus Christ. It is the belief that one can be saved (rescued) from sin and forever death. Many Protestants believe in the "assurance of salvation"—that God can put confidence in a believer that he has has truly received salvation from Jesus Christ. Catholicism teaches that in most cases someone must be a baptized a Catholic to be saved, it is sometimes possible for people to be saved who have not fully joined the Catholic Church. Catholics normally believe in the importance of works and sacraments in getting salvation. The Catholic Church teaches that faith is important, but it also believes that salvation also requires good works and piety, such as obedience to commands, taking the sacraments, going to church, doing penance and giving alms, saying prayers, and other things, to receive eternal life. The formal study of theology of salvation is Soteriology. Different denominations and traditions of Christianity believe in forms divine grace. Roman Catholicism and Eastern Orthodoxy teach the complete importance of the free will to work together with grace. Reformed theology teaches the importance of grace by teaching that a person is completely incapable of self-redemption, but the grace of God overcomes even the unwilling heart. Arminianism believes in a synergistic view, while Lutheran and most other Protestant denominations teach justification by grace through faith alone. Trinity. Trinitarianism is the group of Christians who believe in the "Trinity". Almost all Christian denominations and Churches believe this. Nontrinitarianism is the beliefs systems that do not believe in the Trinity. Many different nontrinitarian views, such as adoptionism or modalism, existed in early Christianity, leading to the disputes about Christology. Scriptures. Christianity uses the Bible, many canonical books in two parts, the Old Testament and the New Testament. It is believed by Christians that they were written by people who were inspired by the Holy Spirit, and therefore it is most often believe to be the word of God. There is some differences in Bible versions and editions throughout Christianity. Afterlife and Eschaton. Most Christians believe that humans beings will receive judgement from God and are given either eternal life or eternal damnation. This includes the "Last Judgment" as well as the belief of a judgement particular to the soul after death. There are also some differences among Christians in this belief. For example, in Roman Catholicism, those who die in a state of grace, go into purgatory. Some churches who do not believe in particular judgment, for example Jehovahs Witnesses, believe that the soul sleeps. Christians believe that at the second coming of Christ at the end of time, all who have died will be resurrected from the dead for the Last Judgment, when Jesus will establish the Kingdom of God. There is also the belief of Universal Reconciliation. That is the belief that all people will someday receive salvation, rejecting the concept that hell is forever. Christians who believe in this view are known as Universalists. Types of Christianity. People who call themselves Christians may show or live their faith in different ways. They may also believe different things. Through history the three main groups or "denominations" of Christianity have been the Orthodox, the Catholic and the Protestant churches. Not all Christians use these titles. Some believe Christianity is bigger and includes others. Some believe Christianity is smaller and does not include all these churches. Disagreements. Some of these groups could not agree on certain points about Christian teaching (called “doctrine”) or practice. The first split was in the 5th century after the Church Council of Ephesus. There council agreed Nestorianism was wrong; the Assyrian Church of the East did not agree and split from the rest. The argument was about the nature of Jesus. Should he be regarded as God and human in one combined nature, or in two separated natures? Most of the bishops, following the Pope (the Bishop of Rome), refused to stay in communion with any bishop who wouldn't say "two separated natures". This was also discussed at the Council of Chalcedon, about 50 years later. The Christians who did not agree with the decision of the Council to excommunicate them, became the Non-Chalcedonian Orthodox. The largest Non-Chalcedonian Churches are the Coptic Orthodox in Egypt, the Ethiopian Orthodox, the Armenian, and some Lebanese Orthodox Churches. In general, these churches are known as Oriental Orthodox Churches. Recent discussions between the Roman Catholic Pope John Paul II and the Coptic Orthodox Pope Shenouda III concluded that they believe many of the same things after all, even though the Coptic Church does not recognise the Pope of Rome as its leader. The third split happened in the 11th century. It is called the Great Schism. It was mostly based on personal disagreements between the Bishops of Rome and Constantinople. The disagreements were made worse because the two cultures often did not understand one another. Also many Crusaders from Western Europe behaved badly. The Christians in Western Europe were led by the Bishop of Rome, known also as the Pope. They are called the Catholic Church. Most Christians in Eastern Europe, Russia, and the Middle East belong to the Orthodox Churches, led by the Bishops of other cities or areas. In the 15th century the invention of the printing press made it easier for more people to read and study the Bible. This led many thinkers over the years to come up with new ideas and to break away from the Pope and his church. They started the Protestant or Reformed churches. Some Catholics and Orthodox do not consider Protestants to be fully Christian. The most important Protestant leaders were Martin Luther and John Calvin. Later some of these groups disagreed amongst themselves, so that these denominations split again into smaller groups. The main Protestant denominations today are the Baptist, Lutheran, and Calvinist Presbyterian Churches. In England, a similar protest against the Pope, first political and later religious, led to the Church of England which has bishops and officially calls itself Reformed Catholic but is often referred to as Protestant. The Anglican communion of churches includes several churches called "Episcopal" or "Episcopalian", because they have bishops. Some Anglican Churches have a style of worship that is closer to the Protestant services, others worship more like Catholics, but none of them accept the Pope, or are accepted by him. In general, the Protestant denominations differ from the Catholic and Orthodox Churches in having given up some of the traditional sacraments, having no ordained priesthood, and not having the same fondness for Mary, the mother of Jesus, that the Catholic and Orthodox churches have. Other differences. Protestants differ from Catholic and Orthodox Christians in placing more importance on a person’s experience of first choosing to follow Jesus. Catholic and Orthodox Christians think that the ongoing growth in holiness that should take place over a person's lifetime is more important. Most Christian worship has Scripture reading, talk about Scripture from a leader, singing, prayer together, and a small time for church work such as collecting money. Christians may meet in special buildings, also called churches, or outdoors, or at schools, or anywhere Christians feel they are needed. The main worship service in Catholic Churches is the Mass and the main worship service in many Orthodox Churches is called the Divine Liturgy. In both of these Churches, along with the other parts of worship, the Eucharist or Communion is central. Here a priest by prayer asks God to change a small amount of bread and wine into what Catholics and Orthodox believe is Jesus's real body and blood, but without changing the accidents (appearance, taste, colour, etc.) of the bread and wine. Then the people each may receive a portion. Many Protestant churches have ceremonies more or less similar to the Mass, some every week, others a few times a year. Some Protestants believe Jesus is really present at the Communion service, and some believe the bread and wine are symbols to help them remember what Jesus did. Other Protestant churches do not have Communion at all. Catholics have developed a short ceremony, Eucharistic Benediction, worshipping Jesus present in the Eucharist. They also may visit a church building to pray in the presence of the Eucharist, Eucharistic Adoration. Orthodox and Catholic spirituality place importance on the use of human senses such as sight and on the use of beautiful things. Catholic spirituality often involves the use of statues and other artistic representations, candles, incense, and other physical items as reminders or aids to prayer. The Orthodox Churches also use candles, incense, bells, and icons, but not statues. Orthodox and Catholic worship also involves use of gestures, such as the Sign of the Cross, made by each person touching first the forehead, then chest, one shoulder, then the other shoulder. There is also bowing, kneeling, and prostration in Catholic and Orthodox worship. Groups outside the three big groups of denominations. There are other denominations that do not fit into the three largest categories. While some of these groups see themselves as Christian, many of the other Christian groups do not agree that they are. All of these groups began after 1800 AD. Most of them do not believe Jesus is God, or do not believe in the Trinity, or for other reasons do not believe what other Christians believe. One denomination which is Protestant (but has some beliefs that are different from most Protestant denominations) is the Seventh-day Adventist Church. History. Christianity has large history from the time of Jesus and his apostles to the present time. Christianity began in the 1st century AD as a Jewish sect but quickly spread throughout the Greco-Roman world. Although it was originally persecuted under the Roman Empire, it became the state religion in the end. In the Middle Ages it spread into Northern Europe and Russia. During the Age of Exploration, Christianity expanded throughout the world, and is now the largest religion of the world. The religion had schisms and theological disputes that had as result three main branches: the Roman Catholic Church, the Eastern Orthodox churches, and Protestant churches. Demographics. With an estimated number of Christians being somewhere around 1.5 billion to 2.1 billion, split into around 34,000 different denominations, Christianity is the world's largest religion. The Christian share of the world's population has been around 33% for the last hundred years. This has caused Christianity to spread throughout the world, mainly in Europe and North America. It is still the main religion of Europe, the Americas, the Philippines, and Southern Africa. However it is becoming smaller in some areas, some of them are; Oceania (Australia and New Zealand), Northern Europe (with Great Britain, Scandinavia and other places), France, Germany, the Canadian provinces of Ontario, British Columbia, and Quebec, the Western and Northern parts of the United States, and parts of Asia (especially the Middle East, South Korea, Taiwan and Macau). In most countries in the developed world, the number of people going to church who claim to be Christians has been dropping over the last few decades. Some believe that this is only because many no longer use regular membership in places, for example churches, while others believe it is because people may be thinking that religion is no longer important. Ecumenism. Most churches have for a long time showed that they want to be tolerant with other belief systems, and in the 20th century Christian ecumenism advanced in two ways. One way was more cooperation between groups, such as the Edinburgh Missionary Conference of Protestants in 1910, the Justice, Peace and Creation Commission of the World Council of Churches started in 1948 by Protestant and Orthodox churches, and similar national councils, for example the National Council of Churches in Australia with Roman Catholics. The other way was creating unions for different churches to join together. Congregationalist, Methodist, and Presbyterian churches joined together in 1925 to form the United Church of Canada, and in 1977 to form the Uniting Church in Australia. The Church of South India was formed in 1947 by the union of Anglican, Methodist, Congregationalist, Presbyterian, and Reformed churches. And other such formations have been done by different Christian groups throughout the years.  
Saarbrücken	Saarbrücken (French Sarrebruck) is a German city and a district in the state of Saarland. It is also the capital of the Saarland. Saarbrücken has 180,000 inhabitants and is on the river Saar.  
Saarlouis	Saarlouis is a city in the Saarland (Germany). It has 38.400 inhabitants and is on the Saar. From 1936 to 1945 it was called Saarlautern. Ford Motor Company has a plant here; it produces the Focus, C-Max and Kuga.  
Brandenburg	Brandenburg is a state ("Bundesland") in Germany. It has been a state since 1990. It is 29,056 km² large and about 2.6 million people live there. Until 1945 it was the biggest province in Prussia, with 38,278 km² and 3 million inhabitants. From 1949 to 1952 it was a state in the German Democratic Republic and in 1952 became divided into three "Bezirke" (Potsdam, Frankfurt and Cottbus). The capital of Brandenburg is Potsdam. Cities and counties in Brandenburg. Brandenburg is divided into fourteen (rural) counties ("Landkreise"), and four urban districts ("kreisfreie Städte"),  
Russian language	Russian (Russian: русский язык, transliteration: "russkiy yaz'ik") is an East Slavic language. This language is a part of the Indo-European language family. Russian is the most widely spoken of the Slavic languages. Russian is the official language of Russia, and also an official language of Belarus, Kazakhstan Kyrgyzstan and Uzbekistan. Russian is one of the six official languages of the United Nations. Naming. In Russian-speaking countries, people are supposed to name their children after their father. One of the most famous Russian names is Anastasia. Girls' middle names are their fathers name plus a feminine ending of either "evna" or "ovna." Boys have their father's name as well, with a masculine ending added of either "evich" or "ovich." Girls' have their father's last name, and most of the time to make it feminine they add an "a" to their father's last name. Boys also carry their fathers name, no ending is added.  
Professor	A professor is a person who teaches at a college or university. A professor is someone who also studies subjects and helps to discover new ideas. This is called doing research.  
Slope	Slope means an area of ground that tends evenly upward or downward or the degree to which a surface tends upward or downward. In mathematics slope means the ratio of the vertical and horizontal distances between two points on a line. (That will be zero if the line is horizontal, infinite if it is vertical.)  
California	California ("The Golden State") is a large state in the western United States. It has more people than any other US state (more than 33 million people). Its most famous cities are Los Angeles (Hollywood, famed world-wide for movie-making, is a district within Los Angeles) and San Francisco. The capital is Sacramento. Culture. The current governor of California is Arnold Schwarzenegger, who has gained fame as a popular actor. Before his acting career, he was a bodybuilder. He was the actor who acted as the terminator in the terminator movie series. There are two senators: Barbara Boxer, and Dianne Feinstein. The state is a leader in three businesses: farming, movie-making, and high technology, namely software and Web sites. It is near a transformant boundary (also known as a fault line) which means a lot of earthquakes happen. People in California have to be prepared for earthquakes. It has more people than any other state in the United States. If California were a country it would have the sixth largest total production in the world, more than many other countries put together. California is probably the state with the most different kinds of people and types of land — mountains, deserts, coasts — than any other state in America. It is often called "The Golden State", possibly because of the Gold Rush back in 1849. Also, however, the grasses become golden during the summertime. The post office uses "CA" to mark California and the Associated Press uses "Calif." or "Cali." Economy. California is a major power in American culture as well as the business life of the nation. Many of the great changes in technology and law come from California, and the state pays more to the U.S. government than it gets back. It also has some of the country's largest cities, such as Los Angeles, San Diego, San Jose, and San Francisco. History. In the past, the whole area we now call "California" was not just today's California, but also covered the Mexican lands south of it, as well as Nevada, Utah, and parts of Arizona and Wyoming. The Spaniards called the part of the territory that eventually became part of the United States "Alta California" (Upper California) when it was split from what became "Baja California" (Lower California). In these early times, the borders of the Sea of Cortez and the Pacific coast were not well known, so the old maps wrongly showed California to be an island. The name comes from "Las sergas de Espladián" (Adventures of Spladian), a 16th century book by Garci Rodríguez de Montalvo, where there is an island paradise called California. The first European who visited parts of the coast, Juan Rodriguez Cabrillo, came from Portugal in 1542, just fifty years after Christopher Columbus made his first trip. The first European who saw the entire coast was Sir Francis Drake, in 1579, and he decided that the British owned it. But starting in the late 1700s, Spanish religious leaders of the Roman Catholic Church ("missionaries") got large gifts of land in the area north of Baja California, from the Spanish king and queen. These religious people set up small towns and villages, the famous California Missions. When Mexico was no longer controlled by Spain, the Mexican government took over the villages, and they soon emptied out. In 1846, as the Mexican-American War was starting, some Americans in California hoped to create a California Republic. These men flew a "Bear flag" that had a golden bear with a star on it. This Republic ended suddenly, however, when Commodore John D. Sloat of the United States Navy sailed into San Francisco Bay. He said that California was now part of the United States. After the war with Mexico ended, California was split between the two countries. The Mexican portion became the Mexican states of Baja California Norte (north) and Baja California Sur (south). ("Baja" means "lower" in Spanish.) The western part of the part given to the United States became today's state of California. In 1848, there were about 4,000 Spanish-speaking people in today's California on the American side. (Today the state has a total of nearly 40,000,000 people.) In 1849, gold was suddenly found and the number of people went up very fast as the Gold Rush took hold. In 1850, California became a state in the Union (the United States). During the American Civil War (1861-1865), about 70% of the people in California believed that the South was right, and only 30% were for the North. But California joined the war effort on the side of the North (the Union) and sent many troops east to fight the Confederacy. At first, travel between the far west and the east coast of the United States was dangerous and took a lot of time. Going by land was very difficult, because there were no roads and no trains, and many Native Americans were attacking American settlers heading West in wagons. The only other way was to travel by boat around the Cape of Good Hope, at the southern end of South America. This took months, since the trip was thousands of miles long and the Panama Canal had not yet been built either. But in 1869, the connection got better quickly, because the first railroad across the continent was finished. Meanwhile, more people in California were learning that the land there was very good to grow fruit and other crops. Oranges were grown in many parts of California. This was the beginning of the huge farming business that California has today. California today. In 1900, there were still "only" a million people in California; Los Angeles — which today has more than 3,000,000 and another 12,000,000 around it — had only 100,000. Today, California has more people than any other U.S. state. It is the only state that has more people than the country of Venezuela. Starting in 1965, the variety of people became much greater as many different people from around the world came to the United States and often decided to live in California. Many, but by no means all, of the people in California tend to be liberal. Technology is very advanced and many new cultural trends begin there. Engineering and computers play a big part in the state's life. For over a hundred years, film has been one of the most important businesses in California. By the 1950s, television had also become an important business in California.  
Propaganda	Propaganda is information. This information has been designed to make people feel a certain way or to believe a certain thing. The information is usually political. It is hard to tell whether the information is true or false. Very often, the information is confusing and unfair. The word 'propaganda' comes from Latin. At first, it meant 'ideas to be spread around'. But in First World War, it came to mean 'political ideas that are supposed to be misleading'. Propaganda is like advertising in some ways. But advertising is usually trying to sell something and propaganda is usually political and used by states or political parties, not private companies. Propaganda is often used during wars. There it can be very useful. It can take the form of posters, TV advertisements, and radio announcements. Sometimes it keeps the people of a country happy - telling them that their country is fighting well and telling them how important it is that the enemy is defeated. Sometimes it tries to make people hate the enemy. The information could tell people that the enemy is evil or make them seem not human. Sometimes a government gives propaganda to the enemy - telling them that the war is going badly for them and that they should stop fighting. When a country is not at war, propaganda can still be used. The government may use propaganda to change what people think about a political situation. A group may try to change the way people act towards an issue. Propaganda under some countries, like dictatorships, is used along with censorship. While propaganda tries to give people false ideas, censorship forces the ones who disagree with propaganda to keep quiet. Then the propaganda can say everything, because nobody can question it in public. Propaganda is also used to win people by tricking them. Some people say that cults use propaganda to get people to join them.  
Topology	Topology is the study of how spaces are organized, how the objects are structured in terms of position. It also studies how spaces are connected. It is divided into "algebraic topology", "differential topology" and "geometric topology". Topology has sometimes been called rubber-sheet geometry, because in topology there is no difference between a circle and a square (a circle made out of a rubber band can be stretched into a square) but there is a difference between a circle and a figure eight (you cannot stretch a figure eight into a circle without tearing). The spaces studied in topology are called topological spaces. They vary from familiar manifolds to some very exotic constructions. Natural Origin. In many problems to solve, we often divide a large space into smaller areas, for instance, a house is divided into rooms, a nation into states, a type of quantity into numbers, etc. Each of these smaller areas (house, state, number) is adjacent to other small areas (other houses/states/numbers), the adjacencies between these spaces are connections. If we write down on paper a list of spaces, and the connections between them, we have written down a description of a space -- a topological space. All topological spaces have the same properties (adjacencies, etc.) and are made of the same structure (a list of smaller areas). Because of this, general algorithms and other forms of analysis are made possible. For instance, to program a robot to navigate a house, we simply give it a list of rooms, the connections between each room (doors, etc.), and an algorithm that can determine the sequence of rooms to travel through to reach any other desired room. We can go further by creating subdivisions of subdivisions of space. For instance, a nation divided into states, divided into counties, divided into city boundaries, etc. All this kind of information can be represented topologically.  
Los Angeles, California	Los Angeles (also called L.A.) is a city in southern California, in the United States of America. It has 3,847,400 people living in the city, and over 18 million people in the L.A. region. The city has an area of 1200 square kilometres. L.A. has the second largest population of any city in the USA, the first being New York City. It is the largest city in California. History. The name Los Angeles comes from the Spanish language and it means "the Angels". The name is an abbreviation from the original name of the place. The original name is "El Pueblo de Nuestra Señora la Reina de los Ángeles de Porciuncula" (in English, "town of our lady the Queen of Angels of the little Portion"). Los Angeles was founded in 1781. The area had earlier been explored by two Franciscan priests named Junipero Serra and Juan Crespi, when California still belonged to Spain. On April 4, 1850 California became a State of the USA. Geography. Los Angeles is a very large city, and the edges of the city are very far from the center, going from the beaches to the mountains. The Santa Monica Mountains run through the city, separating it into the San Fernando Valley to the north and the Los Angeles Basin to the south. Climate. The climate in Los Angeles is a Mediterranean climate. The weather is usually warm and dry during the summer, and it is cool and rainy in the winter. The weather is different depending on how far away from the ocean you are, so places near the beach usually do not get as hot in the summer. It is very rare for temperatures to go below freezing. The city receives about 15 inches (385 mm) of rain each year, although the amount can change a lot from year to year. Sights. L.A. has many famous sights. There are many very long beaches, such as Venice Beach. Many visitors go to Hollywood, home to the Hollywood Walk of Fame and the Mann's (Grauman's) Chinese Theater, a large cinema. Los Angeles also has many fine museums such as the L.A. County Museum of Art and the Getty Museum. Industries. Los Angeles is known for its large movie and television industry. Much of this is located in Hollywood. Some military aircraft are also made there. The music industry is also concentrated in the area. The city is also a banking center. Politics. The current mayor of Los Angeles is Antonio Villaraigosa.  
Census	A census means getting information about every member of a population. Usually used meaning a population of people, but can be used to mean a population of animals. The United States has a census every 10 years, or decade.  
Star	A star is a big ball in outer space that is made of very hot plasma (which is like a gas). Stars get energy using nuclear fusion so they can make light, making them look like they are on fire. Most stars look like shiny dots from Earth, because they are far away, and Earth's atmosphere (the air) makes it harder to see them well. Our Sun is the closest star to us. The earth moves around ("orbits") the Sun in an oval shape. The Sun and all things that orbit it are called the Solar System. Many other stars sometimes have planets orbiting them too. Scientists have found other planets moving around other stars, but no planets that they have found are similar to Earth. The nearest star to our Solar System, and the second nearest star to Earth after the Sun, is Proxima Centauri. It is 39.9 trillion kilometres away. This is 4.2 light years away, meaning that light from Proxima Centauri takes 4.2 years to reach Earth. Astronomers think there are a very large number of stars in the Universe. They estimate (guess) that there are at least 70 sextillion stars. That is 70,000,000,000,000,000,000,000, which is about 230 billion times the amount of stars in the Milky Way (our galaxy). Most stars are very old. They are usually thought to be between 1 and 10 billion years old. The oldest stars are thought to be around 13.7 billion years old. That is the age of the Universe, scientists think. Some stars are small, and some stars are big. The smallest neutron stars (which are actually dead stars) are no bigger than a city. The neutron star is incredibly dense. If you were to take a layer a micron thick and apply it onto a tank, it would be an inpenetratable coat of armor. This is not possible because the tank is now so heavy, it will sink into the center of the Earth.Supergiant stars are the largest objects in the Universe. They have a diameter about 1,000 times bigger than the Sun (the orbit of jupiter). They are about 1.6 billion kilometers across. The star Polaris (the North Star), and the star Betelgeuse, in the Orion constellation are supergiant stars. The light, heat, and other energy of stars comes from nuclear fusion -- a process of turning one chemical element into another one. Most stars are mostly made of hydrogen and helium. They turn the hydrogen into helium. (When a star is near the end of its life, it begins to change the helium into other chemical elements, like carbon and oxygen). Fusion produces a lot of energy. The energy makes the star very hot. The energy produced by stars radiates away from them. It is electromagnetic radiation. This is mostly visible light. When seen in the night sky without a telescope, some stars appear brighter than other stars. This difference is called apparent magnitude. There are two reasons for stars to differ in apparent magnitude. If one star is much closer than another otherwise similar star, it will appear much brighter, in just the same way that a candle that is near looks brighter than a big fire that is far away. If one star is much larger or much hotter than another star at about the same distance, it will appear much brighter, in just the same way that if two fires are the same distance away, the bigger or hotter one will look brighter. Beside light, stars also give off a solar wind and neutrinos. These are very small particles. Stars are a source of a gravity field. This is what keeps planets close to them. It is also not unusual for two stars to orbit each other. This happens when they are close together. This is also because of gravity, in the same way as the Earth orbits the Sun. These binary stars (binary meaning "two") are thought to be very common. There are even groups of three or more stars orbiting each other. Proxima Centauri is the smallest star in a group of three. Stars are not spread evenly across all of space. They are grouped into galaxies. A typical galaxy contains hundreds of billions of stars. Birth and life. People think that stars are made in nebulas. These are big areas of slightly higher density than normal space. When very big stars die, they explode. This is called a supernova. When a supernova happens in a nebula, it becomes unstable. This makes parts of the nebula collapse. Stars form in these collapsed areas. The Orion Nebula is an example of a place where stars form. Stars spend about 90% of their lives fusing hydrogen to produce helium in high pressure reactions near the core. Such stars are said to be on the main sequence. Small stars (called red dwarfs) burn their fuel very slowly and might last tens to hundreds of billions of years. At the end of their lives, they become dimmer and dimmer. Because most stars use up their supply of hydrogen, their outer layers expand and cool to form a red giant. (Astrophysicists think that in about 5 billion years, when the sun is a red giant.) Eventually the core is compressed enough to start helium fusion, and the star heats up and contracts. (Larger stars will also fuse heavier elements, all the way to iron.) An average-size star will then shed its outer layers as a "planetary nebula". The core that remains will be a tiny ball of degenerate matter, not heavy enough for further fusion to take place, supported only by its own pressure, called a white dwarf. It will fade into a black dwarf over very, very long stretches of time. In larger stars, fusion continues until collapse ends up causing the star to explode in a supernova. This is the only cosmic process that happens on human timescales; historically, supernovae have been observed as "new stars" where none existed before. Most of the matter in a star is blown away in the explosion (forming nebulae such as the Crab Nebula) but what remains will collapse into a neutron star (a pulsar or X-ray burster) or, in the case of the largest stars, a black hole. The blown-off outer layers includes heavy elements, which are often converted into new stars and/or planets. The flowing out of the gas from supernovae and the stellar wind of large stars play an important part in shaping the interstellar medium. formula_1  
Drunk driving	Drunk driving (Drink driving in the UK and Australia) is the act of driving a motor vehicle (car, truck, etc.) while under the effects of alcohol. Drunk driving is illegal in most areas of the world. In some places, driving a motorless vehicle such as a bicycle while drunk is also illegal. Most "areas that make laws" ("jurisdictions") started with DWI (driving while intoxicated) laws, banning just alcohol. Later, most changed them to DUI (driving under the influence) laws, adding other drugs to those banned while driving. The most common blood alcohol content (BAC) limit in the United States is 0.08% for the legal meaning of drunk. Only three states still use the more lax, original standard of 0.10%. Many jurisdictions add extra penalties (more jail time and/or a longer DUI program) in cases where the driver's BAC is over 0.20%. History of drunk driving laws. The first jurisdiction in the United States to adopt laws against drunk driving was the state of New York in 1910, with California (1911) and others doing the same later. Early laws simply banned driving while drunk, with no mention of what BAC was banned.The state of Georgia was one of the last states to adopt laws against drunk driving.One of the worst years in alcohol related crashes was 1982.The year 1982 had 26,173 alcohol related deaths due to drunk driving. In the US, most of the laws were greatly tightened in the early 1980s, largely due to pressure from groups like Mothers Against Drunk Drivers (MADD) and.  
Creative Commons	The Creative Commons is a non-profit organisation that tries to make creative work available for others to use and share. Aim. Their website allows copyright holders to give some of their rights to any other people. They still keep some other rights. They do this through licenses and contracts. Some of these make the work public domain or open content. They do this because copyright law can stop people sharing information. The project has different free licenses. A person who has copyright can choose which one they want to use when they publish their work. They also provide RDF/XML metadata. These say what the licenses are and make it easier to automatically sort out and find work that has these licenses. They also provide a 'Founder's Copyright' contract. This aims to give the same effects as the original US Copyright did. History. Creative Commons was officially started in 2001. Lawrence Lessig is the founder and chairman of Creative Commons. Lessig started it as a way of reaching the goals of his Supreme Court case, Eldred v. Ashcroft. Localisation. The "iCommons" (International Commons) is one of the Creative Commons projects. They improve the wording of the licenses and make them usable in other countries. The first ones dealt with US law only. As of February 4, 2004, Brazil, the People's Republic of China, Finland, France, Ireland, Italy, Japan, the Republic of China (Taiwan), and the United Kingdom have joined this project. Projects that use Creative Commons licenses include LOCA Records, Magnatune, Opsound, Opcopy, Wikitravel, iRATE radio and the fiction of Cory Doctorow.  
HTML	HyperText Markup Language (HTML) makes web pages display properly on the World Wide Web. It is a markup language, which means it has a mix of a normal language that people can read, and a special programming language that tells computers what to do. HTML is sent and received through HTTP. A web browser is the program that reads the special language in HTML. This language tells the web browser how the web page should look. The web page can include writing, links, pictures, and even sound and video. It can also have writing that is not shown in the web page, which tells people "about" the web page—for example, the name of the person who made it. The World Wide Web Consortium (W3C) develops HTML. The latest version is XHTML 1.1. It uses XML and can include other XML-languages. Example. Most tags have an opening tag to tell the browser where to start something, and an ending tag to tell the browser where to end. An example is <p> to start a new paragraph, and </p> to end a paragraph. Here is an example page in HTML. HTML is often used with Cascading Style Sheets (CSS) to build a complete webpage. Some browsers allow you to look at the HTML coding of the site. Browsers. Some HTML effects put in to webpages can only be viewed in certain browsers, because other browsers do not support/recognize the HTML. For example codice_1, used to make text slide across the page, can only be used in Internet Explorer and Mozilla Firefox browsers. For another example, Netscape users are the only ones who can see blinking codes: codice_2 into effect. Users with other browsers will see only plain text. This is because browsers have made their own tags.  
Leg	A leg is something used to support things; to hold them up. Birds and humans have two legs. Some objects, for example tables and chairs, also have legs to hold them up. Animals normally have 2 or 4 legs (vertebrates, which are animals with a backbone), or 6, 8, or 12 (arthropods, for example insects and spiders). Centipedes and millipedes have a lot more legs, but not exactly a hundred or a thousand as their names make people who do not know them think. Humans have 2 legs, complete with feet. "Biped" is an animal with two legs and "quadruped" is an animal with four legs.  
Industry	Industry includes all forms of economic activity. It can be divided into four sectors according to the nature of the activity. Primary industry extracts natural materials and provides raw materials for secondary industry. Secondary industry processes raw materials or semi-finished goods into more valuable products. Tertiary industry is the provision of services. Quaternary industry is the activity related to the application, manipulation and transmission of information. In a narrow sense, industry is confined to manufacturing activities.  
Yellow	Meaning of yellow. Yellow can represent light and the sun's rays. Yellow is a sign of cowardice. On road signs, yellow means "warning" or "danger". It is used to mean this because it is easy to see. Some animals, like bees and hornets, also use the color as a warning so that other animals will know to stay away from them. Inkjet printers use yellow ink as one of their three basic colors, along with cyan ink and magenta ink.  
Plymouth Argyle F.C.	Plymouth Argyle Football Club, is an English football (soccer) club. The club is nicknamed "The Pilgrims". The team usually plays in green, white and black. Ian Holloway is the current manager. Club Information. The club is called "The Pilgrims" because the people that left Plymouth for America were the first people to be called Pilgrims. The ship on the badge is called The Mayflower. The first pilgrims travelled on the Mayflower. The club's stadium is called Home Park. It was ruined by German aeroplanes in World War II. Home Park was repaired after the war. In 2001 and 2002, Home Park was made into a better stadium. Some parts of the stadium were not used while the work was being done. The stadium is now fully open. The club was made in 1886, but it was called Argyle Athletic Club. The club changed its name to Plymouth Argyle Football Club in 1903. Plymouth Argyle has never won a match by more than 7 goals. They have beaten Hartlepool United and Millwall 8-1. On 3 January 2004, they beat Chesterfield 7-0. The club lost 9-0 to Stoke City in 1960. Luke McCormick is a goalkeeper. He played seven games in a row for Plymouth Argyle without letting the other teams score a single goal. In the 1990s, Peter Shilton, Neil Warnock, and John Gregory all managed the club. The club won Division Three in 2001/02, won Division Two in 2003/04 and now plays in the newly-named Championship, the second tier of English football. When the club won Division Three they scored 102 points. No other team had ever scored that many points. 100th season. 2003/04 is the club`s 100th season since becoming Plymouth Argyle in 1903. The club has set up many events, while the team has won many awards. "A list of things that happened in the 2003/04 season:" Current Plymouth Argyle Squad. 1 Romain Larrieu Goalkeeper (on loan to Gillingham) 5 Krisztián Timár Defender (on loan from Ferencvaros) 6 Hasney Aljofree Defender (on loan to Oldham) 16 Péter Halmosi Midfielder (on loan from Debrecen) 17 Kevin Gallen Striker (on loan from QPR) 25 Ryan Dickson Midfielder (on loan to Torquay) 26 Scott Sinclair Midfielder (on loan from Chelsea) 27 Reuben Reid Midfielder (on loan to Torquay) Previous Argyle Managers. These are the team managers of Plymouth Argyle and the dates they took over.  
Football	Football is the name for many sports. The most popular type of football is Association football, which is also named "soccer". Football can also mean American football (gridiron), 蹴鞫(Ancient Chinese football), rugby union, rugby league, Australian Rules Football, Gaelic football or Canadian football. The name football comes from the two words "foot" and "ball". It is named football because the ball is usually kicked with the foot. Although it is usually kicked using the foot, it is can also be hit using the knee or head. The game started in Medieval times in the Italian city of Florence. It was played by peasants. Aristocrats, who were richer people, played sport while riding horses. In football, the ball is almost always shaped like a sphere or an ellipsoide.  
Poland	Poland (Polish: "Polska") is officially called the Republic of Poland (Polish: "Rzeczpospolita Polska"). bordered by Germany to the west (along Oder and Lusatian Neisse), the Czech Republic and Slovakia to the south, Ukraine and Belarus to the east, and the Baltic Sea, Lithuania, and Russia (in the form of the Kaliningrad Oblast exclave) to the north. It also shares a water border with Denmark and Sweden in the Baltic Sea. The total land area of Poland is about 312,679 km2 (120,728 mi2). This makes Poland the 77th largest country in the world with population over 38.5 million people. The Poles live mainly in large cities, including the capital, Warsaw (Polish: "Warszawa"), Łódź, the second capital of Poland (first was Gniezno), Cracow (Polish: "Kraków"), Katowice, Gdańsk and Poznań. The first time Poland was recorded in official papers was in 966. In 1569, Poland formed a long lasting union with Lithuania called the Polish-Lithuanian Commonwealth. The Commonwealth collapsed in 1795 and the Poles were without a country for 123 years. Poland regained its independence in 1918 after World War I but lost it again in World War II. Several years later, Poland became a communist country within the Eastern Bloc under control of the former Soviet Union. In 1989, Poland stopped being a communist country and became a liberal democracy. Since May 1, 2004, Poland is the 6th most populated member state of the European Union. Poland is also a member of NATO, the United Nations, and the World Trade Organization. Before Piasts. The first sign of human population in Polish land is from 500.000 years ago. The Bronze Age started around 2400-2300 BC. The Iron Age started around 750-700 BC. Then on Polish lands there was Lusatian culture. About year 400 BC there lived Celtic and Germanic tribes. Those people had trade contacts with Roman Empire. With time, Slavscame to Polish lands. The part of those Slavs, later called "western", stayed there to today and started to create new countries. The most powerful was country of Polans and country of Vistulans. At last, Polish country and nation was created under Polans rule. Piast and Jegiellon dynasties. Poland began to form into a country around the middle of the 10th century in the Piast dynasty. In 966, Prince Mieszko I got himself and the whole Polish nation Christianized. Next ruler was Bolesław I of Poland (called Brave). He conquered many lands and he became first King of Poland. Casimir I of Poland called Restorer (rebuilder) moved Polish capitol from robbed by Bohemians Gniezno to Kraków. In the 12th century Poland broke into some smaller states after the death of King Bolesław III Wrymouth in 1138 because of his testament. Those states were later attacked by Mongol armies in 1241, what slowed action to unite of Poland. In 1320 Władysław I became the King of the united Poland. His son Casimir III the Great repaired the Polish economy, built new castles and won the war against the Ruthenian Dukedom. In addition, Poland became a haven for emigrating people. A large number of Jewish people also moved into Poland during that time. The Black Death, which affected many parts of Europe from 1347 to 1351, did not come to Poland. After death of last Piast on Polish throne, Casimir III, Louis I of Hungary and his daughter Jadwiga of Polandstarted to rule. She got married with Lithuanian prince Jogaila. That event started a new dynasty in Polish throne: Jagiellon dynasty. Under the Jagiellon dynasty, Poland made an alliance with its neighbour Lithuania. Polish-Lithuanian Commonwealth to II Republic of Poland. In the 17th century Sweden attacked almost all of Poland (this was called “the Deluge”). Many wars against the Ottoman Empire, Russia, Cossacks, Transylvania and Brandenburg-Prussia ended in 1699. During the following 80 years, the government and nationed were weaker, making Poland dependent on Russia. Russian tsars took advantage of this by offering money to traitors, who would block new ideas and solutions. Russia, Prussia, and Austria broke Poland into three pieces in 1772, 1793 and 1795, which dissolved the country. Before second broke, in 1791 was made Constitution called "Constitution of 3 May". Polish people did not like the new kings, and often rebelled (two big rebels in 1830 and 1863). Napoleon made another Polish state, “the Duchy of Warsaw”, but after the Napoleonic wars, Poland was split again by the countries at the Congress of Vienna. The eastern part was ruled by the Russian tsar. During World War I all the Allies agreed to save Poland. Soon after the surrender of Germany in November 1918, Poland became the Second Polish Republic ("II Rzeczpospolita Polska"). It got its freedom after several military conflicts; the largest was in 1919-1921 Polish-Soviet War. World War II. On September 1, 1939, World War II started when Nazi Germany attacked Poland, and the Soviet Union attacked on September 17. Warsaw was defeated on September 28, and Poland was split up into two pieces, one half owned by Nazi Germany, the other by the Soviet Union (border like between Poland and Soviet Union after 1945, but not the same). The eastern part of the German zone was turned into the German Government area. Out of all the countries that were in the war, Poland lost the highest amount of its people, in which more than 6 million died, including half of them which were Polish Jews. Most of the deaths were related to the Holocaust, in which 6 million Jews including other people were killed. Poland also gave the most troops, after the US, the British and the Soviets, to ultimately defeat Nazi Germany. At the war's end, Poland's borders were moved west, pushing the east border to the Curzon line. The west border was moved to the Oder-Neisse line. The new Poland became 20% smaller by 77,500 square kilometeres (29,900 sq mi). The shift forced millions of Poles, Germans, Ukrainians, and Jews to move. Post-war. After these events Poland became a communist country under the Soviet Union rule. It was from then on, called People's Republic of Poland. There are still many Polish in the neighbouring countries Ukraine, Belarus, and Lithuania (those countries was then part of Soviet Union), as well as in other countries. The most Poles outside of Poland are in the United States, especially in Chicago. In 1989 Solidarity - a trade union led by Lech Wałęsa - helped defeat the communist government in Poland. After that event, Lech Wałęsa got Noble Prize. During the early 1990s the country turned its economy into one of the most solid in Central Europe. There were many improvements in human rights, such as freedom of speech, democracy, etc. In 1991 Poland became a member of the Visegrad Group and joined NATO in 1999 also with the Czech Republic and Hungary. Polish voters then voted to join the European Union in a vote in June 2003. The country joined the EU on May 1, 2004. Geography. Poland’s territory covers across five geographical regions. In the northwest is the Baltic seacoast, which starts from the Bay of Pomerania, and ends at the Gulf of Gdansk. This coast is marked by several spits, coastal lakes (former bays that have been cut off from the sea), and dunes. The largely straight coastline is curved inwards by the Szczecin Lagoon, the Bay of Puck, and the Vistula Lagoon. The center and parts of the north lie inside the Northern European Lowlands. Rising gently above these lowlands is a geographical region making up the four hilly districts of moraines and moraine-dammed lakes that formed during and after the Pleistocene ice age. These lake districts are the Pomeranian Lake District, the Greater Polish Lake District, the Kashubian Lake District, and the Masurian Lake District. The Masurian Lake District is the largest of the four and covers much of northeastern Poland. The lake districts form part of the Baltic Ridge, a series of moraine belts along the southern shore of the Baltic Sea. South of the Northern European Lowlands lie the regions of Silesia and Masovia, which are marked by broad ice-age river valleys. Farther south lies the Polish mountain region, including the Sudetes, the Cracow-Częstochowa Upland, the Świętokrzyskie Mountains, and the Carpathian Mountains, including the Beskids. The highest part of the Carpathians is the Tatra Mountains, along Poland’s southern border. The major historical regions of Poland include Pomerania, Greater Poland, Silesia, Lesser Poland, Masovia, Warmia, Masuria, and Podlachia. Urban demographics. The lists below show the population count of Poland's largest cities based on 2005 estimates. Voivodeships. Poland is made of sixteen regions known as voivodeships ("województwa", singular - "województwo"). They are basically created from the country's historical regions, whereas those of the past two decades (till 1998) had been focused on and named for separate cities. The new units range in areas from under 10,000 km² (Opole Voivodeship) to over 35,000 km² (Masovian Voivodeship). Voivodeships are controlled by voivod governments, and their legislatures are called voivodeship sejmiks. The sixteen voivodeships that make up Poland are further divided into "powiaty" (singular "powiat"), second-level units of administration, which are about the same as to a county, district or prefecture in other countries. People. In the past, Poland was inhabited by people from different nations and of different religions (mainly Catholics, Orthodox and Judaism). This changed after 1939, because of the Nazi Holocaust which killed many Polish Jews. After World War II, the country was changed into a communist country, by the Warsaw Pact which included most eastern European countries, including Russia. Today 36,983,700 people, or 96.74% of the population call themselves Polish (Census 2002), while 471,500 people (1.23%)claimed another nationality. 774,900 people (2.03%) didn't declare any nationality. Nathionalites or an ethnic groups in Poland are Silesians, Germans (most in the former Opole Voivodeship), Ukrainians, Lithuanians, Russians, Jews and Belarusians. The Polish language is part of the West Slavic section of the Slavic languages. It is also the official language of Poland. English and German are the most common second languages studied and spoken. In the past few years, Poland's population has gone down because of an increase in emigration and a sharp drop in the birth rate. In 2006, the census office estimated the total population of Poland at 38,536,869, a very small rise on the 2002 figure of 38,230,080. Since Poland's accession to the European Union, a large number of Polish people have moved to work in Western European countries like the United Kingdom and Ireland. Some organizations state people have left because of high unemployment (10.5%) and better opportunities for work somewhere else. In April 2007, the Polish population of the United Kingdom had risen to about 300,000 people and estimates predict about 65,000 Polish people living in Ireland. However, in recent years strong growth of Polish economy and increasing value of Polish currency (PLN) makes many Polish immigrants to go back home. In 2007 number of people leaving the country was lower than people who are coming back. Poland become attractive place to work for people from other countries (mainly Ukraine). A Polish minority is still present in neighboring countries of Ukraine, Belarus, and Lithuania, as well as in other countries. The largest number of ethnic Poles outside of the country can be found in the United States.  
England	England is the largest of four states that form United Kingdom. About 55 million people live in England. England is bordered by Wales and Scotland which are both also on the island of Great Britain. The capital city of England is London, which is also the largest city in England. Birmingham, Leeds and Manchester are also large cities in England. The English flag is white, with a red cross. This cross is the cross of Saint George, who is the patron saint of England. Some other symbols used for England are a red rose (for rugby) and three lions (for association football). Geography. England is on the island of Great Britain. Scotland is also part of Great Britain, joining the north of England, and Wales is to the west. To the east and south, and part of the west, England is bordered by sea. France is to the south, separated by the English Channel. The Channel Tunnel under the sea, links England and mainland Europe. Ireland is a large island to the west, divided into Northern Ireland which is part of the United Kingdom, and the Republic of Ireland. Other countries of Europe that are near England are France and the Iceland. London is the largest city and the capital. Other large cities are Birmingham, Manchester, Leeds, Sheffield, Bristol and Liverpool. The longest river in England is the Thames, (called the Tems) which runs through London. Other large rivers are the Severn, the Trent and the Humber. Language. The English language is a West Germanic language spoken in many countries around the world. With around 380 million native speakers, it is the third most spoken language in the world, as a native language. As many as a billion people speak it as a second language. English is an influence on, and has been influenced by many different languages. History. England was named after a German tribe called the "Angles", who settled in Central, Northern, and Eastern England in the 5th century. A related tribe called the "Saxons" settled in the south of England. That is why that period of English history is called "Anglo-Saxon". For the majority of this time, England did not exist as a united country. The Anglo Saxons lived in many small kingdoms, which slowly united. England became one country in 937. The first King of England was Athelstan, but he lost a lot of England to Danish invaders, who formed their own country in the East and North. Many villages and towns in this area (particularly in Yorkshire and Lincolnshire), still have Danish names, and use Danish-based words in their dialects. At one time Wessex (in the West of England) was the only English kingdom left. After many battles, King Alfred of Wessex became king of the whole of England, and the old kingdoms (Mercia, Northumberland, etc) just became provinces, called "Earldoms" governed by an "Earl". Soon after Alfred died, the king of Denmark (Knut or Canute) ruled England. England soon had an English king again. When King Edward (the Confessor) died, Harold (the Earl of Wessex) became king. William the Conqueror, Duke of Normandy, said that Harold had promised to make William the king, so he invaded England and fought King Harold at the Battle of Hastings in 1066. William won, and then became king of England. The kings of England spoke French for the next 300 years (The present ruler, Queen Elizabeth II is a descendant of William, but not very directly). England took over the country of Wales in the 13th century. There were many wars, often against France and Scotland. The religion of England was Roman Catholicism. The bishops (church leaders) of England and all their churches looked to the pope and the church in Rome, Italy, for leadership. Many of the bishops did not agree with this. During the reign of King Henry VIII in the 1500s, the bishops made an agreement with Henry to give him a divorce, if he would break with the Church of Rome. The Church of England (a "Protestant" church) became the official church in England at this time. For the next 200 years, there were difficulties over whether the ruler was "Roman Catholic" or "Protestant". Queen Elizabeth I was Henry's second daughter. She was a powerful queen who ruled for more than 40 years. When Queen Elizabeth I died, she had no children, and in 1603 James VI of Scotland (the son of Mary, Queen of Scots) became King James I of England. He called his two countries "Great Britain", but they were still separate countries with their own parliaments and laws, even though they had the same King. James' son, Charles I and the English Parliament fought each other in the English Civil War (Scotland and Ireland were involved as well, but the story is complicated!). Oliver Cromwell became leader of the Parliamentary Army (the "Roundheads") and defeated the Royalist Army (the "Cavaliers"). King Charles was beheaded in 1649 and Oliver Cromwell became dictator ("Lord Protector"). When Cromwell died, his son Richard was not strong enough to rule, and King Charles II, the son of Charles I, was invited to come to England and be king in 1660. When King Charles II died, his brother James II was the next king. James was unpopular with a lot of people because he was Roman Catholic. England was invaded by William of Orange (ruler of part of the Netherlands and husband of Mary, the daughter of King James). Many people welcomed William because he was a Protestant. James left the country without a fight and Parliament asked William and Mary to become King and Queen together. When Mary died, William ruled alone. Queen Mary's sister, Anne, became the next queen. While she was queen, England and Scotland were officially joined as one country, in 1707, and lost their separate parliaments. The parliament in London now included Scottish "MPs", and was called the British parliament. After this, the history of England becomes the history of Great Britain and United Kingdom. The United Kingdom was formed in 1800, when Irish Parliament merged with British one. (Northern Ireland is now the only part of Ireland still in the UK.) England is the only state of UK not to have its own government, Parliament or Assembly, but to be Governed by Parliament of the United Kingdom. English culture. See English literature. Sport. The English football team has won the World Cup. They came close in Italia 1990, narrowly losing to West Germany on penalties. In the 2006 World Cup they reached the quarter finals, then lost to Portugal after penalty kicks.  
Wales	Wales (Welsh: Cymru) is a state of United Kingdom. It is one of the five Celtic states (Republic of Ireland, which is also Celtic, is a country) and it is part of the former. Wales is to the west side of England. The capital of Wales is Cardiff (in Welsh: "Caerdydd"), which has 325,000 people. The National Assembly of Wales is in Cardiff. The highest mountains in Wales are in Gwynedd, in the north-west, and include Snowdon "(or Yr Wyddfa)", which is the highest peak in Wales at 1085 m (3,560 ft). Wales has a population of just under three million people. The majority of the population lives in the South and the East of the country. The main languages spoken in Wales are English and Welsh. Welsh is a Celtic language, related to Cornish and Breton. About one out of every five people in Wales speaks it.  
Scotland	Scotland (Scottish Gaelic: "Alba") is a state of UK. It is on the north of island Great Britain. Scotland shares a state border with England. The state is also bordered by the North Sea to the east, the Atlantic Ocean to the west and also the Irish Sea. Scotland was once an independent country with its own government but is now one of the four states that form United Kingdom. In 1603 the King of Scotland James VI of Scotland became King of England too. In 1707 the parliament of Scotland joined with the parliament of England to become the parliament of Great Britain, and in 1801 Great Britain joined with Ireland to become United Kingdom of Great Britain and Ireland. Even though Scotland is not independent, throughout history it always had a separate, law and school system and a unique culture. Since 1999 Scotland has had its own parliament. However, many things are still controlled by the Westminster parliament in London, England. Some people in Scotland now want independence again for their state and it to become a country. The Scottish flag is blue with a white diagonal cross (called a saltire). This is the cross of Saint Andrew, who is the patron saint of Scotland. Some other symbols used for Scotland are a thistle, and a lion. The north of Scotland has many mountains, and few people live there. Most people live in the low central area, or around the coast. South of the central belt are the Southern Uplands, another hilly place. On the west coast and in the north are a lot of islands. The capital city of Scotland is the city of Edinburgh, on the east coast. But the biggest city is Glasgow - nearly half of Scotland's people live in Glasgow or in the area near it. Other cities in Scotland are Aberdeen, Dundee, Inverness and Stirling. Geography. The main part of Scotland makes up one-third of the size of the British Isles, and is located to the northwest of Europe. The size of the land of Scotland is 78,772km² (30,414 sq mi). Scotland's only land border is with England, and runs for 96 kilometres (60 mi). The Atlantic Ocean borders the west coast and the North Sea is to the east. The island of Ireland is only 30 kilometres (20 mi) from the southern part of Kintyre; Norway is 305 kilometers (190 mi) to the east and the Faroes, 270 kilometres (168 mi) to the north. Scotland's highest point is the top of Ben Nevis, in Lochaber, while Scotland's longest river, the River Tay, flows for a distance of 190 km (120 miles). History. The history of Scotland begins around 10,000 years ago, when humans first began to inhabit Scotland after the end of the last ice age. Of the Stone Age, Bronze Age, and Iron Age civilization that existed in the country, many artifacts remain, but few written records were left behind. The written history of Scotland mostly begins with the arrival of the Roman Empire in Britain, when the Romans occupied what is now England and Wales, taking it as a Roman region called Britannia. To the north was land not owned by the Romans — Caledonia, by name. Its people were the Picts. From a historical view Scotland seemed to be slow to advance, gathering knowledge from the Mediterranean countries, but as knowledge of the past increases it is now known that some areas were earlier and more advanced than previously thought, and that the sea was very important to Scottish history. Because of the geographical location of Scotland and its strong reliance on trade routes by sea, the nation held close links in the south and east with the Baltic countries, and through Ireland with France and Europe. Following the Acts of Union and Industrial Revolution, Scotland grew to be one of the largest commercial, intellectual and industrial states in Europe. Independence. The Wars of Scottish Independence were a series of military campaigns fought between Scotland and England in the late 13th and early 14th centuries. The First War (1296–1328) began with the English invasion of Scotland in 1296, and ended with the signing of the Treaty of Edinburgh-Northampton in 1328. The Second War (1332–1357) began with the English-supported invasion of Edward Balliol and the 'Disinherited' in 1332, and ended around 1357 with the signing of the Treaty of Berwick. The wars were part of a great national crisis for Scotland and the period became one of the most important moments in the nation's history. At the end of both wars, Scotland still was a free and independent country, which was her main aim throughout the conflict. The wars were also important for other reasons, such as the emergence of the longbow as a key weapon in medieval warfare. A series of deaths in the line of succession in the 1280s, followed by King Alexander III's death in 1286 left the Scottish crown in disarray. His granddaughter Margaret, the "Maid of Norway", a four-year old girl, was the heir. Edward I of England, as Margaret's great-uncle, suggested that his son (also a child) and Margaret should marry, stabilising the Scottish line of succession. In 1290 Margaret's guardians agreed to this, but Margaret herself died in Orkney on her voyage from Norway to Scotland before she was made Queen or her marriage could take place. John Balliol, the man with the strongest claim to the throne, became king (30 November 1292). Robert Bruce of Annandale, the next strongest claimant, accepted this outcome (his grandson and namesake later took the throne as Robert I). Over the next few years Edward I attempted to undermine both the authority of King John and the independence of Scotland. In 1295 John, on the recommendation of his chief councillors, entered into an alliance with France. This was the beginning of the Auld Alliance. In 1296 Edward invaded Scotland, removing King John. The following year William Wallace and Andrew de Moray raised an army from the southern and northern parts of the country to resist the occupation. Under their joint leadership an English army was defeated at the Battle of Stirling Bridge. For a short time Wallace ruled Scotland in the name of John Balliol as Guardian of the realm. Edward came north in person and defeated Wallace at the Battle of Falkirk (1298). Wallace escaped but resigned as Guardian of Scotland. John Comyn and Robert the Bruce were put in his place. In 1305 Wallace was captured by the English, who executed him for treason. Wallace claimed he did not commit treason as he owed no allegiance to England. In February 1306 Robert Bruce murdered John Comyn, a leading rival. Bruce went on to take the crown, but Edward's army overran the country after defeating Bruce's small army at the Battle of Methven. Despite the excommunication of Bruce and his followers by Pope Clement V his support slowly strengthened; and by 1314 with the help of leading nobles such as Sir James Douglas and the Earl of Moray only the castles at Bothwell and Stirling were still under English control. Edward I had died in 1307. His heir Edward II moved an army north to break the siege of Stirling Castle and again take control. Robert defeated that army at the Battle of Bannockburn in 1314, securing temporary independence. In 1320 a letter to the Pope from the nobles of Scotland (the Declaration of Arbroath) went part of the way towards convincing Pope John XXII to overturn the earlier excommunication and cancel the various acts of submission by Scottish kings to English ones so that Scotland's independence could be recognised by other European countries. In 1326, the first full Parliament of Scotland met. The parliament had evolved from an earlier council of nobility and clergy around 1235, but in 1326 representatives of the burghs — the burgh commissioners — joined them to form the Three Estates. In 1328, Edward III signed the Treaty of Northampton declaring Scottish independence under the rule of Robert the Bruce. Four years after Robert's death in 1329, however, England once more invaded, looking to put the "Rightful King" — Edward Balliol, son of John Balliol — to the Scottish throne, starting the Second War of Independence. In the face of tough Scottish resistance, led by Sir Andrew Murray, attempts to secure Balliol on the throne failed. Edward III lost interest in Balliol after the outbreak of the Hundred Years' War with France. In 1341 David II, King Robert's son and heir, was able to return from temporary exile in France. Balliol finally resigned his vacant claim to the throne to Edward in 1356, before retiring to Yorkshire, where he died in 1364. Language. The official languages of Scotland are English and Gaelic. English is spoken by most people in Scotland, with only a small number, mostly in the Western Isles, speaking Gaelic. There is also another language called Scots, which is a Germanic language which is closely related to English. Football. Football is the most popular sport in Scotland. The big cities, Glasgow, Edinburgh and Dundee, all have two or three big football teams, and most towns have at least one team. The two most famous teams in Scotland are known as the "Old Firm", Celtic and Rangers. These two Glasgow clubs have a lot of history, and are fierce rivals, often causing fights and even riots between the fans. Rangers are world record holders, having won the most amount of league titles of any football team, currently 51. Other football clubs. The other main clubs in Scotland are Aberdeen FC, Heart of Midlothian FC, Hibernian FC and Dundee United FC. These teams are normally in the Premier League and usually take the most places in the top six of the league. Some other Scottish clubs include Gretna FC, who won three titles in a row, moving from the Third Division, to the SPL in only three seasons, and also Raith Rovers FC, who famously played UEFA Cup Winners, Bayern Munich. Raith Rovers were knocked out by Bayern, but managed to lead them 1-0 at half time. Scottish Premier League. The top division of Scottish Football is called the "Scottish Premier League" (or SPL), and is currently sponsored by the Clydesdale Bank, a large Scottish Bank. Golf. Golf is also a popular sport in Scotland. Colin Montgomery, a professional golfer, is known as one of the best players never to have won a major championship after finishing second five times. Motorsports. Scotland is also involved with motorsports. Current F1 driver David Coulthard is a thirteen time Grand Prix winner. Jackie Stewart is a 3-time F1 World Champion and regarded as one of the best drivers ever. Jim Clark is a 2-time F1 World Champion and regarded as one of the three best ever with Schumacher and Senna. Colin McRae was also 1995 World Rally Champion. Elephant Polo. Scotland was the world champions of the unusual sport of Elephant Polo in 2004. Elephant Polo is registered as an Olympic sport with the Nepal Olympic Committee, and was invented by Scotsman James Manclark in 1983.  
Northern Ireland	Northern Ireland ("Tuaisceart Éireann" in Irish or "Norlin Airlann" in Ulster Scots) is a state of United Kingdom and under the south of Ireland's jurisdiction as per the GFA. It is part of an island in Western Europe called Ireland that it shares with the Republic of Ireland. 1.7 million people live in Northern Ireland. The capital is Belfast. People. Northern Ireland has had many conflicts between some of the people who live there. Unionists, who are mostly Protestant, want the Northern Ireland to stay part of the United Kingdom. Nationalists, who are mostly Catholics, want the north of Ireland to leave the United Kingdom and have the whole island united as one country. Some people do not want to join the Republic of Ireland or remain part of the U.K. Instead, they want Northern Ireland to be an independent country. The population is made up of 52% Unionists and 48% Nationalists at the moment. Sometimes people use other names for Northern Ireland. Unionists sometimes call it "Ulster" but this is not correct as three counties of Ulster are in the Republic of Ireland. Nationalists sometimes call it "the north" or "the six counties" which is to state that it is part of a united Ireland, not the United Kingdom. There is no correct defining term for this part of Ireland. Languages. English is spoken by almost everyone in Northern Ireland. Another important language is Irish (sometimes called "Irish Gaelic" or "Gaelic") and a dialectual language known as Ulster Scots which comes from Eastern Ulster and Lowland Scotland. The Irish language, backed by Foras na Gaeilge, is widespread, especially in Belfast, the Glens of Antrim and counties Tyrone and Fermanagh. The Irish language is spoken by a large majority of nationalist (Catholic and Protestant) people. Ulster Scots is almost exclusive to areas of Belfast and mid Antrim. Some languages like Chinese, Urdu or Polish are becoming more common in Northern Ireland as people from other countries move to Northern Ireland. Belfast Agreement. Since the "Belfast Agreement", (sometimes called the "Good Friday Agreement") of Friday, 10 April 1998, there has been mainly peace between the two sides of the community. This agreement was agreed by most of the people in the North and the South Republic of Ireland, as well as the Irish and British government. It allows for self-government and for co convernance between the South and Britain and makes clear the right of the people of Northern Ireland to decide their future.  
Great Britain	Great Britain is part of the United Kingdom. In geography, Great Britain is an island in Europe. It is the main part of the United Kingdom. It contains England, Scotland and Wales. England is the biggest part of the island. England is in the southeast. Wales is to the west of England. Scotland is to the north of England. Ireland is to the west of Great Britain. Ireland contains the Republic of Ireland and Northern Ireland. Northern Ireland is not a part of the island of Great Britain, but it's a part of the United Kingdom. The capital of England is London. Scotland's capital is Edinburgh and Wales' is Cardiff. Britain was called Great Britain originally to distinguish the island from Brittany. Thousands of people from Great Britain had gone to live in Brittany in the seventh and eighth centuries. History. Britain was made in the year 1707 when England and Scotland joined up because they already had the same king. This was called "The Kingdom of Great Britain". In the year 1800, Ireland joined up with Great Britain and they all were then called "The United Kingdom of Great Britain and Ireland". Today, the island is called "Great Britain" and sometimes the "United Kingdom" is called Britain or "Great Britain".  
List of English football teams 2005/06 season	These are the English football (soccer) teams and the leagues they are in for the 2005–06 season.  
Scottish Football League	The Scottish Football League is the series of leagues for Scottish football teams. At the top of the leagues, there is the Scottish Premier League. Scottish Third Division. Team that play in Methil in Fife, they were founded in 1903 and play at the Bayview Stadium, their manager is Dave Baikie and their chairman is William Gray. Team that play at Firs Park in Falkirk, founded in 1881. Currently managed by Gordon Wylde and their chairman is Alan Mackin.  
List of French football teams	These are some French football (soccer) teams.  
List of German football teams	These are the German football teams and the leagues they played in for the 2008/09 season. The highest German league is the Bundesliga (First Division). Below it is the second "Bundesliga" (Second Division). The Third Division is called 3. Liga. The Fourth Division, called "Regionalliga" is split into a northern, a southern and a western part. The northern part is called "Regionalliga Nord", the southern part "Regionalliga Süd" and the western part "Regionalliga West".  
List of Italian football teams	These are some Italian football teams that are or have been in the past years in the main professional division (Serie A).  
List of Spanish football teams	These are the Spanish football (soccer) teams and the leagues they played in for the 2003/04 season.  
Welsh League	The Welsh League is a football league in Wales. Some large Welsh clubs play in England's Football League.  
Arsenal F.C.	Arsenal Football Club is an English football club. The club plays in the English Premier League. They won the First Division and English Premier League 13 times and the FA Cup 10 times. They are the only British club to have been the subject of a feature film. It was founded in 1886. The team plays in a traditional red and white kit. They played at Arsenal Stadium in Highbury in north London from 1913 - 2006, but now they play in a new stadium called the Emirates Stadium. The current captain of the side is Cesc Fabregas, a Spanish national football player, and the deputy captain is Kolo Toure. Managing. The manager of Arsenal F.C. is Arsene Wenger. Their new Emirates Stadium was opened on the 27th of October 2006, by the Duke of Edinburgh. Arsenal also has a women's team called Arsenal Ladies F.C.. The ladies team is the only team in women's football history to have ever won four trophies in one season.  
Aston Villa F.C.	Aston Villa Football Club, is an English football club. The club plays in the FA Barclaycard Premiership. They were started in 1874. They play at Villa Park in Birmingham.  
Birmingham City F.C.	Birmingham City Football Club, is an English football club. The club plays in the English Premier League, their current manager is Alex McLeish. Their home ground is St.Andrews  
Blackburn Rovers F.C.	Blackburn Rovers Football Club, is an English football club. They play at Ewood Park, which is in Blackburn. The manager of the club is Sam Allardyce. They have won the FA Premier League once in the 1994/1995 season. However, in 1999, they were relegated. Alan Shearer is one of their most famous players.  
Bolton Wanderers F.C.	Bolton Wanderers F.C. is an English football club. It is based 35 miles north of Manchester. The club plays in the Premier League. Their home is the Reebok Stadium. It holds around 28,723 people. Their manager is Gary Megson. At home they play in a white shirt, navy blue shorts & white socks. Away they play in a mustard yellow shirt, teal green shorts and teal green socks.  
Charlton Athletic F.C.	Charlton Athletic Football Club, is an English football club. The club plays in the FA Barclaycard Premiership.  
Chelsea F.C.	Chelsea Football Club is an English football club that plays in England, starting in 1905. The club plays in the FA Barclays Premier League, and they play at the Stamford Bridge Stadium in London. Chelsea's owner is billionaire Roman Abramovich. They finished in second place in the 2007/08 FA Premier League campaign behind champions Manchester United. History. Chelsea started in 1905 and played the second division of the league. They won their first trophy in 1955, when they became champion of the first division. They won the FA Cup in 1970, 1997, 2000 and 2007. They won the League Cup in 1965, 1998, 2005 and 2007. In 1970s Chelsea failed to maintain their position of the first division, due to the financial difficulties. In 1990s they challenged the title of Premier League. They came close but did not win it until 2005 and 2006. In 2003 the Russian billionaire, Roman Abramovich, purchased Chelsea and invested lots of capital to employ new football players. He also employed Luiz Felipe Scolari, as the manager of the club. Abramovich also employed Peter Kenyon as the chief executive to be responsible for the commercial strategies of the club. This made Chelsea more and more powerful, and they won the FA Premier League in consecutive years. A third straight FA Premier League title slipped through Chelsea's fingertips after their failure to defeat Arsenal at the Emirates Stadium meant that Manchester United had won their ninth league title in fifteen tries. On September 20th, 2007, the very successful manager José Mourinho left the club by "mutual consent". This exit came just days after a shockingly poor performance which saw them barely scrape out a 1-1 draw in a Champions League tie against Norwegian side Rosenborg B.K.. Following Mourinho's exit, Chelsea made Director of Football Avram Grant, the former manager of the Israel side from 2002 to 2006, the new manager of the club, until May 2008. Grant took over with Chelsea trailing in the Premier League "title race" behind Manchester United F.C. and Arsenal F.C., and managed to keep Chelsea in the hunt for the league until the last game of the season. He got Chelsea into the Champions League Final for the first time as well as the Carling Cup Final, but he was sacked at the end of the season, along with assistant Henk ten Cate. Grant was sacked from the job after he lost in the final in a 5-6 penalty shootout loss to Manchester United and replaced by Luiz Felipe Scolari, the then-Portugal coach, in August.  
Everton F.C.	Everton Football Club or Everton F.C. are an English football club from the city of Liverpool. The club currently competes in the English Premier League and have played more seasons in the top league of English football than any other team. Everton were founded in 1878. They have a long rivalry with Liverpool FC, whose ground is nearby. When they play each other the match known as a "Merseyside derby". In the 1890's Everton played at Anfield, Liverpool's stadium. But the owner of the stadium put the rent up so much the club decided to leave and build their own instead. Everton were then based at a new stadium called Goodison Park. They still play there today. Many famous players have played at Everton including Leon Osman, the English World Cup winning Alan Ball and legendary goal scorer William 'Dixie' Dean. Dean still holds the record for most goals in one season scoring 60 in the 1927/1928 season. History. Everton started out in 1878 with the name St Domingo's FC. At first it was only for people who went to St Domingo's church, but so many people were interested they let people from the local are join as well. A year later the club was renamed Everton Football Club, after the area. Everton Football Club's first ever match was against a team called St Peter's in 1979. Everton won 6-0. Everton entered the FA Cup in the 1886-1887 season. They were beaten 1-0 by Glasgow Rangers in the first round. As football became more and more popular around England, the clubs realised they needed an organised league. In 1888 the Football League was founded. Everton were one of the 12 founding members. Preston North End won the first two leagues and Everton won the third in 1891. They won their second ever trophy, the FA Cup, in 1905 but didn't win another until 1916. It wasn't until 1927 that Everton had their first period of long success. In 1925 they signed Dixie Dean and in 1927 he scored 60 goals in 39 games, setting a new world record and taking Everton to another league title.  
Fulham F.C.	Fulham Football Club, is an English football club from London. It plays in a white shirt and black shorts for home games. For away games, it plays in blue shirts and white shorts in 2005, but has played in colours such as green, yellow or black. Mohamed Al-Fayed owns the club. He is from Egypt, and also owns Harrods, a famous shop in London. History. The club was made in 1879 as Fulham St.Andrews. Lots of famous players used to play for Fulham, like Johnny Haynes (1950s), Bobby Moore (1970s), George Best (1970s) and Edwin van der Sar (2000s). Fulham have only won 1 trophy; the Inter Toto Cup in 2003. When Mohamed Al-Fayed bought Fulham, it was in the 2nd division of English football (English Division Two). He put lots of money into the club, and he made good choices about the club. The club won promotion two times, so in 2001 it was a Premiership team. Stadium. Fulham's stadium is called "Craven Cottage", it was built 100 years ago. It has a pretty building in one corner of the pitch, this is the "Cottage". The fans of Fulham like to call it "The Cottage", and it can have 22,230 people sitting in it. From 2002 to 2004, Fulham had to play at Loftus Road, which is the ground of Queens Park Rangers, near the BBC. This was because the club needed to change Craven Cottage because of new rules. The rules said that nobody can stand at football games, so the club had to have new seats. Some people who live near to Craven Cottage do not like having a big club near to them. They made it hard for the club to be allowed to make the changes. This is why the changes took a long time, even though it was easy work for the builders. Because of the "Cottage", the club and its supporters are called "The Cottagers". Now. The club plays in the FA Premier League, the top football league in England. The club's manager is Roy Hodgson. Hodgson took over from Lawrie Sanchez.  
Liverpool F.C.	Liverpool Football Club is an English football club. They are also known as "The Reds". Liverpool F.C. was created on March 15th 1892. The club plays in the English Premier League. The stadium they play in is Anfield. The club is managed by Rafael Benítez, a Spanish manager, since June 2004. The club is owned by two American businessmen, George Gillett and Tom Hicks. History. Liverpool won their first Football League championship in 1901, and their second in 1906. They played their first FA Cup final in 1914, but lost 1-0 to Burnley. The last trophy they won was the FA Cup in May 2006. They have also won the European Champions Cup 5 times, with the 5th success in Istanbul in 2005. The game was won after Liverpool drew 3-3 with A.C. Milan and then won the penalty shootout, partly due to goalkeeper Jerzy Dudek's heroics. Liverpool F.C. are the most successful club in English football. They have won England's top football league, the Premier League (this includes the First Division), 18 times. However, they have not won a league title for 18 years. Notable players. Pepe Reina. Steve Finnan, Irish international equally as good setting up in the opposition defense area as he is at chasing down opposing strikers Jamie Carragher - (Vice captain) An English defender know for his high work rate, his passion and defensive ability. Sami Hyypiä - (former captain) A tall Finnish defender known for his positional intelligence (meaning he knows where he has to be and when). Daniel Agger - A Danish defender known for both his defensive abilitiy and attacking prowess (his ability in attack). Steven Gerrard - (Captain) A box-to-box (meaning he plays all over the pitch) midfielder know for his knack of scoring spectacular and crucial goals and being the heart of Liverpool Football Club. Stevie has been voted as Premiership player of the year by the other players. Javier Mascherano: An Argentinian defensive midfielder who his known for his fantastic tackling abilities and ability to break up play (meaning his ability to stop the other teams attacks). Fernando Torres - A Spanish striker known for his incredible speed, quick feet and finishing ability. He is the first Liverpool player to score 20 goals in the English Premier League (England's top league) since Robbie Fowler in the mid-1990's. He has become a fan favorite at Anfield and is touted (suggested) by many as one of the best strikers in the world. Robbie Keane - the Irish international captain.  
Manchester City F.C.	Manchester City Football Club is an English football club. The club plays in the English Premier League and is owned by a company from Dubai. As of September 1, 2008 they are the richest club in the English Premier League. The manager of the club is the Welshman Mark Hughes who replaced Sven-Göran Eriksson. They finished 9th place in the 2007-08 Premier League. Their current stadium is the City of Manchester Stadium.  
Manchester United F.C.	Manchester United Football Club is a football club that plays in the English Premier League. It plays at Old Trafford which is in Greater Manchester. Manchester United is a very successful club. They have won the BARCLAYS Premier League (Or the old Division 1) 17 times. 1 behind Liverpool FC. The club are current champions of the league and are reigning champions of Europe. This is because United have just recently won the UEFA Champions League for a third time. They have also won the FA cup 11 times, and the league cup 2 times. History. The club started as Newton Heath (L&YR) F.C. in 1878. All of the team worked at Lancashire and Yorkshire Railway depot at Newton Heath. After nearly closing in 1902, John Henry Davies took over and changed the club's name to Manchester United. Manchester United made Matt Busby their manager after the Second World War. Matt Busby used the youth team to get new players, and this was very successful. The club won the Football League in 1956 and 1957. The success was stopped by the Munich air disaster in 1958. Eight of the club's players died. It was thought that the club might close, but it didn't, and won the football league in 1965 and 1967, and the European Cup in 1968. The club did not do well again until the 1990s and 2000s, when Alex Ferguson became manager. He won the club ten league victories in 21 years, most recently in the 2007-08 season. In 1999, Manchester United became the only team to win the UEFA Champions League, FA Premier League and the FA Cup in the same season. The club had been a Public Limited Company since 1991, and an attempted takeover by Rupert Murdoch had been blocked by the British Government in 1999, but in 2005 Malcolm Glazer completed a hostile takeover of the club. When this happened fans formed FC United of Manchester. When Manchester United sold star player David Beckham in 2003, they began to search for a player to take his place, and the team convinced Sir Alex Ferguson to buy Cristiano Ronaldo. Notable players. These are notable players who once played for Manchester and players who still do. (* denotes still playing for Manchester United)  
Middlesbrough F.C.	Middlesbrough Football Club, is an English football club. Their stadium is the Riverside Stadium. The club plays in the English Premier League.  
Newcastle United F.C.	Newcastle United Football Club is an English football club in Newcastle. It plays in the FA Premiership after being promoted from the old First Division in 1993. The club currently has no manger following Kevin Keegan's resignation on 4 September 2008. History. Newcastle United was formed in 1892 after the two rival clubs Newcastle West End and Newcastle East End grouped together. They have played their matches at the ground St.James' Park ever since. This ground holds 52,000 people, and is one of the biggest in England. It is located just outside the centre of Newcastle. Newcastle originally played in red and white stripes. They changed to the familiar black and white stripes in 1904 so that they would not be confused with Sunderland - Sunderland and Middlesbrough are Newcastle's local rivals. The club has suffered from little success since the mid-fifties. The last trophy they won was the UEFA Intertoto Cup in 2006. The club. Traditionally the loudest support for the club came from the Gallowgate End - a stand in the St. James' Park. This stand is where Alan Shearer once used to watch Newcastle play when he was a child. Alan Shearer is the club's top scorer with with 206 goals, he also holds the record for most goals in the English Premier League - 260. The record transfer fee the club has paid is £17 million (around $30 million) for Michael Owen, in August 2005. Alan Shearer was the previous record transfer at £15 million, which was also the world's largest transfer fee when he signed in 1996. The Newcastle United's number 9 shirt is one of the most famous shirts in the world. Legends such as Hughie Gallacher, Malcolm McDonald, Jackie Milburn and Alan Shearer having wore the famous shirt.  
Portsmouth F.C.	Portsmouth Football Club, is an English football club. The club plays in the FA Premiership. Their home stadium is called Fratton Park.  
Tottenham Hotspur F.C.	Tottenham Hotspur Football Club, is an English football club. The club plays in the English Premier League. Their current stadium is White Hart Lane, in north London. The captain of Tottenham Hotspur is centre back Ledley King. Harry Redknapp is the Manager. Famous Tottenham Hotspur players include Pat Jennings, Paul Gascoigne, Glenn Hoddle, Dave Mackay, Gary Lineker, Danny Blanchflower, Teddy Sheringham and Dimitar Berbatov. They have many rivals in London but their most famous rivals are Arsenal. They were the first winners of ther UEFA Cup tournament, and the first team in the 20th century to achieve the league and cup double. Their nickname Spurs is the most commonly used in English football. Other nicknames include The Lilywhites and occasionally "Yid Army". In their most recent Premiership campaign, the finished in 11th position as well as winning the League Cup.  
Derby County F.C.	Derby County Football Club is an English football club. The club plays in the FA Premier League (also known as the Premiership) Early years. The club was formed in 1884 by players from Derbyshire County Cricket Club who wanted something to do in the winter. They started out by playing at the Racecourse Ground, Derby. The Rams, as Derby County are known, were one of the first members of The Football League when it started in 1888. Back in 1895 the club moved to a new stadium, The Baseball Ground. It was called this because baseball had been played there much earlier beforehand, and it became their home for the next 102 years. When they moved, Derby County had changed their club colours to the black and white they still use today at matches. In 1898, Derby got to their first FA Cup final, but lost. The same happened again in 1899 and 1903. Derby's went down to the Football League's Second Division for the first time in 1907, but they came back up to the First Division in 1911. In 1914 they were relegated again, but won the Second Division the next year to get promoted. World War I meant that they had to wait until 1919 to play First Division football again. After just two seasons, they were relegated yet again in 1921. After Derby's next promotion in 1926 the club got much better, and were one of the top teams from the late 1920s all the way through to the 1939-1940 season, which was interrupted when World War II broke out. FA Cup win. The FA Cup restarted in the 1945-1946 season. Derby got to the final again, but this time they beat Charlton Athletic 4-1 to win the Cup. Some people had thought the reason Derby kept losing in the FA Cup was that they were cursed by gypsies, as the Baseball Ground was built on the site of a gypsy camp. Some players even thought so, and before the final they asked the gypsies to lift the curse. The Football League began again the next season, but Derby didn't play well and were relegated in 1953. Things went from bad to worse and in 1955 they were relegated to the Football League Third Division (North) for the first time in their history. Derby were too good for that league though, and finished second at the first try. Then they did even better next season by finishing first, and going back up to the top division. The Clough years. In 1967, Brian Clough took over Derby County with Peter Taylor helping him. Derby were back in Division Two, but Clough got them promoted to the First Division in 1969. He led them to their first ever Championship in 1972. Derby couldn't win the title again the next season, but they did get to the semi-finals of the European Cup, but they lost to Juventus. A lot of people in England thought after the match that the Italian club had paid money to the referee as a bribe. This was never proved. Clough left the club after an argument with Derby's chairman Sam Longson. Clough later became manager of Nottingham Forest F.C., where he went on to win a First Division championship and two European Cups. After Clough. Derby won the league again in 1974-1975, this time with Dave Mackay as manager. He used to play for the club, as captain, under Clough. When Mackay left in 1976, Derby got slowly worse until they went down in 1980. Derby's stay in the Second Division was not a happy one and they were relegated to the Football League Third Division in 1984. It was exactly 100 years since the club formed, and just nine years after their last Championship. The club made Arthur Cox manager. After a two year stay in the Third Division, they were promoted to the Second Division. They won that league the next year, going back up to the First Division in 1987. The club managed to finish 5th in 1989, but it was owned by businessman Robert Maxwell, who was having money problems. He stopped spending money on new players, and sold the club not long before his death. The club was relegated back to the Second Division in 1991 (which changed its name to the First Division a year later when the First Division clubs left to form the FA Premier League). Jim Smith became Derby's manager in 1995. Before the end of the season, Smith took the Rams up to the Premier League for the first time. Recent times. Derby County did well in the 1996-97 season, finishing 12th in the final table with international players like Aljosa Asanovic and Igor Stimac playing well. The club moved into the new 33,000-seat Pride Park Stadium for the 1997-98 season, and went on to finish ninth. Next year they did even better, finishing eighth, but the season after that Derby struggled, and finished 16th. Another bad season followed in 2000-01, as Derby finished 17th in the Premiership - just one place clear of going down. Jim Smith left the club in October 2001 and his assistant manager Colin Todd took over. He kept his job for just 3 months before he was sacked. At the end of January 2002, John Gregory got the manager's job. Derby started well, but then lost seven of their last eight matches and were relegated again after six seasons in a row in the Premiership. It was a bad time to go down. Money owed to the Football League teams by the TV company ITV Digital was never paid, and Derby were one of the clubs to suffer worst. They had to sell their best players and rebuild a team with mostly very young players. They finished 18th after a difficult season. In late March, Gregory was suspended and George Burley came in as a temporary manager. At the end of the season Gregory was sacked and Burley took over fully. Owner Lionel Pickering lost control of the club and a new board of John Sleightholme, Jeremy Keith and Steve Harding came in. Derby finished 20th in the 2003-2004 First Division campaign, but did much better in the 2004-05 season and finished 4th in the Division which was now called the Football League Championship. This meant they won a promotion play-off spot, but lost in the semi-finals to Preston North End. Soon after losing, Burley left. Derby then employed Phil Brown for a short period who was then replaced by the Academy Coach, Terry Westley, who kept the club up in the 2005-06 season. Before the final game of the 2005-06 season a local consortium led by Peter Gadsby, took over the Rams and gave the manager's job to Billy Davies, who left Preston after compensation was agreed by both clubs for his services. The new changes and fresh activity in the transfer market promise a bright future for this founder member of the football league. Following a poor start to the 2007-2008 season which saw Derby achieve just one win in 14 matches Billy Davies has left Derby County FC. Famous players. Many people think the best Rams player ever was Steve Bloomer, one of the highest scoring players in the history of English football. He played for Derby from the late 19th century to just before the First World War. Other top players include the FA Cup winners Peter Doherty, Jackie Stamps and Raich Carter. In more recent years players like Roy McFarland, Archie Gemmill, Colin Todd, Kevin Hector, Steve Powell, Ron Webster, Alan Hinton and Dave Mackay played in the championship winning sides. More recently, the England goalkeeper Peter Shilton, Stefano Eranio and Igor Stimac all played for the Rams. Bobby Davison was also a favourite of Rams fans. Recent famous players also include locally born Matthew Debyshire who has achieved some degree or recognition at Blackburn Rovers but has expressed desire to play a more successful clubs like Tottenham Hotspurs. Local rivals. Derby County's main rivals are Nottingham Forest, who are based in Nottingham, a city just a few miles north-east of Derby. Leicester City, also based in the East Midlands, come a close second. Fans from the north of Derbyshire often dislike Sheffield Wednesday or Leeds United.  
Ipswich Town F.C.	Ipswich Town Football Club PLC (Ipswich Town) is an English football club. The club was founded in 1878. The chairman of the club is David Sheepshanks. The home stadium of the club is Portman Road in Ipswich, England. This stadium can hold 30,300 people. Ipswich Town plays in the Football League Championship. This division used to be called English Division One. Local fans call the team 'town' because it is a shortened version of the team name. They are also called 'blues' because Ipswich plays in a mostly blue uniform. Some people also call Ipswich the 'tractor boys'. This nickname was mainly created by newspapers. Many Ipswich fans use this name as a joke rather than letting it be an insult. The main rival of Ipswich Town is Norwich City. When these two teams play, there are very few empty seats and the crowd is usually louder than any other game. Ipswich Town finished the 2005-6 season of The Championship play in 15th place. Championships. Ipswich Town has won the top division once when it was called Division one, it is now called the Premier League. They have won the FA Cup once. The club has also won the UEFA Cup once in 1981. In 1973, 1975 and 2005 the "under 18" team won the FA Youth Cup. Ipswich has a very good reputation for educating young players. Managers. Jim Magilton is the manager of Ipswich Town. He was formerly the captain before retiring in May 2006. Magilton joined the club in 1999 after being on loan from Sheffield Wednesday. He was part of the team which gained promotion to the Premiership in May 2000 by beating Barnsley 4–2 in the Play-Off final. Two coaches of Ipswich Town have gone on to become the manager of the England national football team. The first was Sir Alf Ramsey. He also won the World Cup for England. The second was Sir Bobby Robson who got England to the semi-finals of the 1990 World Cup finals.  
Sunderland A.F.C.	Sunderland Association Football Club is an English football club. They are from the city of Sunderland. The club played in the English Premier League in the 2005/2006 season, they finished bottom. Only scoring one home goal all season, in the very last home match. They played in the Championship in 2006/2007, but were promoted back to the Premiership for 2007/08 under manager Roy Keane. Sunderland AFC were created in 1879 and joined the Football League in 1891. They have won the league six times. The last time Sunderland won the league was in 1936. Sunderland have won the FA Cup two times, in 1937 and 1973. For 99 years, Sunderland played their home games at Roker Park. In 1997 they moved, and now play their home games at the Stadium of Light. The stadium holds 49,000 people.  
West Bromwich Albion F.C.	West Bromwich Albion Football Club is an English football club. The club plays in the English Premier League. Their home stadium is called the Hawthornes.  
West Ham United F.C.	West Ham United Football Club is an English football club. The club plays in the FA Premiership. It was started in 1895 and its home stadium is Upton Park in east London. The club is also called "the Hammers" and "the Irons" because it was started in a London ironworks. Their main rivals are Leyton Orient other rivals are Tottenham Hotspur F.C., and Chelsea FC. Their current manager is Gianfranco Zola.  
Wigan Athletic F.C.	Wigan Athletic Football Club is an English football club. The club plays in the FA Premiership, currently managed by Steve Bruce. It is the youngest in the division (75 years old). They play their home games at the JJB Stadium.  
Wimbledon F.C.	Wimbledon Football Club was an English football club. The club began in Wimbledon in 1889. In 2002 it moved to Milton Keynes and it 2004 it changed its name to Milton Keynes Dons F.C. Many football fans in Wimbledon did not agree with the move. They decided to start a new club there, which is called AFC Wimbledon. The club played in the English Football League and won the FA Cup in 1988. It was a professional football club, which means that the players get paid to play. First move: out of Wimbledon. Also in 1992, the club decided that its ground at Plough Lane was too small and moved away from Wimbledon to Selhurst Park in Croydon. This ground is owned by Crystal Palace F.C.. They stayed there for the next 12 years. Second move: out of London, to Milton Keynes. In 2002, the club's owners decided that they wanted to move the club out of London. Nobody really knows why they wanted to move. They said that there were too many clubs in London, that not enough people were coming to watch the matches. This meant that they didn't collect enough money at the gate to pay everyone and that is why they could not afford to stay. They looked at Cardiff and Dublin before deciding to move to Milton Keynes. Milton Keynes is a new city that is 45 miles (or 75 kilometres) north of London. When they said what they wanted to do, most of their fans stopped paying to see matches, which meant that they had even less money to pay everyone. Before the move could happen, they had to get permission from the Football Association (the FA). The FA is the association of all the football clubs in England. The clubs elect a Committee to decide what to do about things. Most things they have to decide are easy but this was not easy to decide. Or maybe they knew what to decide but didn't want to be the ones to decide it. So they asked three clever men to study the problem and tell them what would be best to do. These three men said that the club should be allowed to move. Some members of the Committee did not like this decision and tried to stop it. But the owners of Wimbledon F.C. said that they would get a judge to decide (in a court) if anyone tried to stop them. It costs a lot of money to go to court and whoever loses has to pay for everybody. The other clubs would not agree to pay if this happened, so the FA had to agree to the move. But it was already too late for the owners of Wimbledon F.C. They had no money left. They had borrowed money from the bank to keep going but now the bank wanted its money back. When you can't pay back what you borrow, this is called "going bankrupt" and that is what happened. Luckily (or unluckily, depends on your point of view), the group in Milton Keynes that first wanted them to come, still wanted them. So this group paid back some of the money and in 2003, the club moved to Milton Keynes. They began playing in the National Hockey Stadium, beside Milton Keynes Central railway station and stayed there for two years until their new stadium was ready (2007). Many football fans around England did not like the idea that a club could move. They believe that a club belongs to a town and it is not like a furniture shop that closes down in one town and opens in another town. Another reason that they didn't like it is that they would love to see their own club get into the Football League. The only way that they can do that is if they win their regional league, then win the Conference. So they felt that Milton Keynes was "jumping the queue" to get into the League. Because of this, many fans refused to attend ("boycotted") any games they played Milton Keynes. In 2004, the new owners changed the name to 'Milton Keynes Dons F.C.', but many In 2006, the Football Fans Federation proposed a way forward. The most important thing for the town of Wimbledon was the trophies (cups, shields) that the club had won when it was called Wimbledon F.C. The agreement was that Milton Keynes Dons F.C. would give these trophies to Merton Borough Council, which is the local government area that contains Wimbledon. The league history of Milton Keynes Dons F.C. would start from 2004 when they changed their name. The Fans Federation would ask fans to end the boycott. Everybody agreed and this is what has happened.  
Accrington Stanley F.C.	Accrington Stanley Football Club is an English football club. The club plays in the Football Conference. They where re-founded in 1968 after going bankrupt (having no money) in 1962. They were first founded in 1921. They are thought of as hard working but having no chance of success. Their nickname is Stanley. They play at the Interlink Express Stadium in Accrington in Lancashire, in England.  
Telford United F.C.	Telford United Football Club is an English football club. The club plays in the Unibond Premier. Telford United is no longer Telford United as they had too much money problems and dropped 4 leagues. They are now AFC Telford United.  
AFC Wimbledon	AFC Wimbledon is an English football (soccer) club from London. The club plays in the Isthmian League Premier Division. They have been promoted to a better league twice in the past two years. AFC Wimbledon were formed in 2002 by fans angry at Wimbledon F.C. moving to Milton Keynes, 70 miles away from South London. They play at the The Fans' Stadium, Kingsmeadow in London.  
Sheffield F.C.	Sheffield Football Club is a football club in England. Sheffield F.C. is the oldest football club in the world. It was set up in 1857 in the city of Sheffield. It is not the same as Sheffield United F.C. or Sheffield Wednesday F.C.. It does not play in a national league.  
Asteroid belt	The asteroid belt or asteroid field is an ring of small and large rocks between the orbits of Jupiter and Mars. The biggest object in the asteroid belt is the dwarf planet Ceres. Formation. Astronomers say that the asteroid belt formed from the leftover dust and debris from the formation of the Solar System 4.6 billion years ago. The asteroids could not form a planet because of the sun's gravity.  
Essen	Essen is a German city in the state of North Rhine-Westphalia. It is located on the Ruhr River and it is near Cologne. 585,000 people live in Essen. Next to the city lies the cities Bochum.  
Gardening	Gardening is the growing of plants such as flowers, shrubs and trees as a hobby or recreation. Some people also grow vegetables or fruit in their gardens. People do gardening outdoors in the soil in their backyard, or in pots or containers on their balcony or on their patio. Some people do gardening on a roof. People do indoor gardening inside their house or inside a building. Sometimes indoor gardening is done in greenhouses, which are special buildings where plants are grown. A greenhouse has a transparent glass or plastic roof and walls that let sunlight in. Water gardening is growing plants in ornamental pools and ponds. People doing water gardening plant water lilies and other aquatic plants. Gardening can be done outside of the home, in city parks, botanical gardens, zoos, amusement parks, theme parks, and around tourist attractions. These types of gardens are cared for by people called gardeners or groundskeepers. Gardening compared with farming. Gardening is related to farming. But farming is done on a much larger scale. A farm may have hundreds of square kilometers of plants and crops. A garden in a person's backyard is usually only measures a few square meters. As well, farming is done as a business, to sell the crops, fruit, and vegetables that are produced. Gardening is done just to produce fruit or vegetables for the gardener's own family. Gardening is done as a hobby or as a recreation, not as a business. Gardening tools. Gardeners use tools to dig in the soil and water the crops. These tools include a spade, a hoe, a basket, a watering can, a hose, a bucket, and a wheelbarrow. Gardens as art. In many countries and cultures, designing beautiful gardens is considered to be an art. In Japan, for instance, Zen monks build decorative gardens. In Europe in the 1700s, kings and queens had formal gardens built (for example the gardens at Versailles, France).  
Democracy	A democracy (a word from the Greek language, meaning "rule by the people") is a form of government. In a democracy, certain people of a community choose their leaders. There are different ways to do this, but the process is usually called "holding an election". Political parties are involved with politics. It may therefore look easy to pick a political party. The party that gets elected will then choose people to lead. Very often those leaders will also decide the laws. In a democracy, there are elections every few years where the people can vote and choose who they want to lead them, or choose the laws. The decision is made based on the number of votes. The side with the most votes wins. Examples of democracies are India, Mexico, and the United States. Kinds of Democracy. There are two kinds of democracy: Direct and Indirect (also known as Representative democracy). In Direct Democracies, everyone has the right to make laws together. One modern example of direct democracy is a referendum, which is the name for the kind of way to pass a law where everyone in the community votes on it. Direct democracies are not used to run countries, because it is hard to get millions of people to get together all the time to make laws and other decisions. In an Indirect, or Representative Democracy, people choose representatives to make laws for them. These people can be mayors, councilmen, Members of Parliament, or other government officials. This is a much more common kind of democracy. Large communities like cities and countries use this method, but it may not be needed for a small group. History. This kind of government was developed long ago by the ancient Greeks in the city of Athens (potatoes rock your socks.) They had everyone who was a Citizen (Slaves, Women, Foreigners, and Children could not vote) get together in one area. The Assembly would talk about what kinds of laws they wanted and voted on them. The Council would suggest the laws. In the Assembly, the participants are only the citizens. In the Council, they would pick them by draws(lot). The participants in the Council would change every year and the amount of people in the Council is maximum 500. The Greek citizens would pick a leader by writing the name of their favorite candidate on a piece of stone or wood. The candidate with the most votes became the leader.  
Game	Games are played for fun and enjoyment. One person can play a game, or many people can play a game. A game usually has rules telling players what to do and what not to do. Players follow these rules in a game. Some games have many rules and are more complicated some games have few rules and are very simple. In a game, one person can win and another can lose. Or they both can win, or they both can lose. Where there is no winner and no loser, it is often called a drawn game or a tied game. Games can be played on a computer, or they can be played with a ball or board. Some games, like "Eye Spy" can be played only by looking at things.  
Nebraska	Nebraska is a state in the center of the United States. Its capital is Lincoln. The largest city in Nebraska is Omaha. Nebraska is known for its agriculture, especially beef and corn. Nebraska has hot summers and cold winters. A temperature of 30 °C is common in the summer, and in the winter it can be -20 °C or colder at night. Nebraska became a state in 1867.  
Time	We use time to measure the past, the present and the future. To measure time, we can use anything that repeats itself regularly. An example is the number of times the Earth rotates (spins around). This is measured in "days". The number of orbits it makes around the Sun is measured in "years". The study of time measurement is horology. The SI (Systeme Internationale) unit of time is one second, written as s.  
Force (physics)	In physics, force is what changes or tends to change a state of rest or motion in an object. Force causes objects to accelerate, add to the object's overall pressure, or change direction. Force is measured in Newtons (N). where formula_2 is the force, formula_3 is the mass of an object, and formula_4 is the acceleration of the object. where formula_7 is the weight of an object, formula_3 is the mass of an object, and formula_9 is the acceleration due to gravity at sea level. It is about formula_10. Force is a vector, so it has both a magnitude and a direction.  
Laboratory techniques	Laboratory techniques are the techniques of handling the various pieces of apparatus.  
International System of Units	The International System of Units is the international standard form of the metric system today. SI is the short name for this from the French language phrase "Système International d'unités". The metric system is a system of measuring based on the metre for length, distance or displacement, kilogram for mass, and second for time. The metre, kilogram and second can be used in combination with each other. This will make different units of measurement to mean other amounts, such as volume, energy, pressure, and velocity. Sometimes we want to talk about larger or smaller measurements. Then we add a prefix. A prefix is something to the beginning of a word to make a word. The prefix "kilo-" means "1000" and the prefix "milli-" means "0.001". So one "kilometre" is 1000 metres and one "milligram" is a 1000th of a gram. These prefixes are shown in the table on the right side. History and use. These were created in France after the French Revolution. They are now used almost everywhere in the world, apart from the United States, Liberia and Myanmar, where the older imperial units are still widely employed. Varios other countries, most of them historically related to the British Empire, are in different stages of the process of introduction of the metric system as replacement for or as an addition to the use of the imperial system. Even the United Kingdom, which created the old US units of measurement, is now generally using the metric system alongside the imperial system. There is even pressure to become more metric, both as a result of UK government plans dating before Britain's entry into the European Union and because of EU rules regarding common systems of measurement. Base units of measurement. The SI base units are measurements used by scientists and other people around the world. All the other units can be written by combining these seven base units in different ways. These other units are called "derived units". Length ("l"). Unit: metre or meter (m) One metre is defined as the distance light travels in a vacuum in 1/299,792,458 second. This standard was adopted in 1983 when the speed of light in vacuum was defined to be precisely 299,792,458 m/s. Mass ("m"). One kilogram is defined to be the mass of a specific cylinder of platinum-iridium alloy. It is kept at the International Bureau of Weights and Measures near Paris. There is an ongoing effort to introduce a definition using other basic or atomic constants. Time ("t"). One second is defined as the time required for 9,192,631,770 periods of the radiation between to two specific energy levels of the element caesium-133. This definition was adopted in 1967. Electric flow ("I"). The ampere is that constant electrical current (or flow) which, if maintained in two straight parallel conductors of infinite length, of negligible circular cross-section, and placed one metre apart in vacuum, would produce between these conductors a force equal to 2 × 10-7 newton per metre of length. The ampere is one of two base units (the other being the candela) that uses derived units in its definition, not just base units. One newton is 1 kg m s-2. Temperature ("T"). The kelvin, unit of temperature, is the fraction 1/273.16 of the thermodynamic temperature of the triple point of water. It is named after Lord Kelvin. Amount of substance ("n"). Unit: mole (mol) Luminous intensity (brightness of light) ("I"). The candela is the luminous intensity (brightness), in a given direction, of a source that emits monochromatic radiation of frequency 540 × 1012 hertz and that has a radiant intensity in that direction of 1/683 watt per steradian. The candela is one of two base units (the other being the ampere) that uses derived units in its definition, not just base units. One hertz is 1 s-1, one watt is 1 J s-1 = 1 kg m2 s-2 and the steradian is the solid angle subtended at the centre of a sphere of radius "r" by a portion of the surface of the sphere having an area "r"2. Derived units with special names. There are also derived units which have special names. Usually these were made to make calculating simpler.  
Lake Michigan	Lake Michigan is one of the five Great Lakes in North America. It has a surface area of 22,300 square miles (57,750 square km). It is 307 miles long by 118 miles wide. Lake Michigan is the 5th largest lake in the world. It is bounded by the U.S. states of Indiana, Illinois, Wisconsin, and Michigan. The largest city on Lake Michigan is Chicago.  
List of kitchen equipment	This is a list of items found in many kitchens.  
Gas syringe	A gas syringe is a tool used in a laboratory. It is used to collect a gas or to measure the volume of a gas. Simple systems can be settled in the laboratory to collect gas or to compress it. It is usually used to explain Gas Law.  
Mixture	In chemistry, a mixture is a substance that is made up of two or more simpler substances. These substances can be chemical elements or compounds. A mixture can be a liquid, a solid, or a gas. A mixture is not the same as a compound, which is made of two or more elements (different kinds of atoms) connected together. For instance, a mixture of the gases hydrogen and nitrogen contains hydrogen and nitrogen, not the compound ammonia which is made of hydrogen and nitrogen atoms. A solution can be a mixture. For instance, sugar dissolved in water is a mixture. Solids can be mixtures also. Many kinds of soil and rock are mixtures of different minerals.  
Language families and languages	Language families are groups of languages that are related to each other because they come from a common older language. The languages in such a family are similar in their vocabulary or structure. For example, French and Spanish both come from Latin. Latin was spoken a long time ago, and some of the people who spoke it started to speak one way, saying, for example, for good: "bueno" while another group started saying "bon." Most words are said a little differently in Spanish and French, so the two are called different languages. Most languages belong to a language family, but some languages do not. These languages are called Language isolates. There also are Constructed languages, like for example Esperanto. Constructed languages are made for different reasons: making a 'world language', for fun, for use in fiction, etc.  
Chess	Chess is a game for two players. It is played on a board, with two colors of pieces. The board is a square, made of 64 smaller squares, with eight squares on each side. Each player starts with sixteen pieces (eight pawns, two each of knights, bishops, and rooks, and one king and queen). The players in a game of chess are called "white player" and "black player", depending on the color of pieces they control. Each game starts with the pieces set in the same way, which you can see in the picture. The pieces start out, from left to right for the white player, from right to left for the black player, in the first row in front of the players in this order: rook, knight, bishop, queen, king, bishop, knight, rook. A pawn is placed in the square right in front of each piece. The game commences with the players taking turns moving one piece at a time. White always moves first. Each piece can only move in a special way. A piece cannot move onto a square that has a friendly piece (meaning, a piece of the same color) on it. A piece also cannot move through squares that have other pieces on them. However, a piece can end its move on a square that has an enemy piece on it. If this happens, the enemy piece is "captured", meaning it is taken off the board and is not in the game anymore. An alternative version of this game is Transfer Chess. Check and checkmate. When a player makes a move that will let him or her capture the enemy king on the next move, the enemy king is said to be in "check." The player whose king is in danger must use a turn to save the king. A player might save the king by moving the king out of the way, capturing the dangerous piece, or moving another piece between the dangerous piece and the king. If the player whose king is in danger cannot do any of these things, it is called "checkmate", and they lose. Many games of chess end when one player sees they are about to lose, and elect to resign rather than prolong a hopeless game. A player may declare, "Mate in two," (or "three..four...etc.) if they believe the opponent cannot stop them from checkmating in two moves. A game may end in a draw if both players agree that neither can win. Strategy. Chess is a very complex game, and has many different strategies that can be used to win. Most of them are for the beginning of the game, called "opening moves", or simply "openings". The most popular opening, the King's Pawn Opening, involves the white player moving his king's pawn (e2) foward two spaces (e4). Black can respond in many different ways, opening up possibilities for a very complex game. Other chess openings are more risky. The "Parham Attack" is a very risky move that has the white player moving his queen out in the middle of the board and tries to lure other pieces to capture it. If white loses the queen, white is at a serious disadvantage, because black has more pieces out of the starting position than white. However, if the attack succeeds, white will have many more pieces than black, and black's king will most likely be out in the open and undefended.  
Gold	Gold is a soft, heavy, dark yellowish piece of shiny metal that has been used for many thousands of years by people all over the world, for jewelry, as money, and now in tooth fillings and electronic equipment such as computers. It was especially admired as jewelry in early times because of its great luster and beauty. In Exodus it was used as part of the clothes the priests wore. The color of this metal is also called "gold". Chemical properties. In chemistry, gold is chemical element 79, a transition metal in Group 11. It has an atomic weight of 199.96 a.m.u. Its symbol is Au, from the Latin word for gold, "aurum". Gold is very soft, which means it can be hammered into thin sheets; and ductile, which means it can be pulled into wire. When it is used in money or in jewelry, it is often mixed with silver or some other metal to make it harder. Most metals are gray in color. Gold's yellow color comes from the way that electrons behave in it. There have been many discoveries of gold in Australia. The most important discovery of gold there was probably discovered by Sir Edward Hargraves. He started the first Australian gold rush.  
Century	A century is a way to describe a length of time. One century is one hundred years. The ancient Romans used the word century to describe a group of about one hundred soldiers, organized into a single unit. The Roman numeral for 100 is "C". The word for 100 in Latin is "centum". Centuries in the Gregorian Calendar (the most-commonly used calendar with 365 days) begin at one instead of zero. That means that in the year 2004, we were in the 21st century, rather than 20th century.  
Kilogram	The kilogram is a metric unit that describes mass. The official kilogram equals the mass of a particular piece of platinum-iridium metal kept in Paris. It is the only SI unit left that is defined such that it needs to be compared to some object. There are now attempts to define the kilogram in a different way, for example by specifying a number of atoms of a certain substance (at a certain temperature). One kilogram is a little more than 2.2 pounds. One tonne is one thousand kilograms. History. In 1879 the piece of metal was made. It was officially chosen to be the kilogram in 1889. It was made of 90% platinum and 10% iridium because both do not rust or corrode the way most metals do. From 1795 to 1799, the unit of mass was not called "kilogram" but was named "grave". Problems. There are various copies of the original Kilogram. The problem is now that some of these copies have gained or lost some mass. They no longer weigh the same.  
Second	The second (symbol: s) is a unit of time, and one of the seven SI base units. It is the time taken by 9,192,631,770 cycles of radiation that comes from electrons moving between two energy levels of the caesium-133 atom. A second is also 1/60 of a minute, and 1/3600 of an hour. The second (SI symbol: s), sometimes abbreviated sec., is the name of a unit of time, and is the International System of Units (SI) base unit of time. SI prefixes are frequently combined with the word "second" to denote subdivisions of the second, "e.g.", the millisecond (one thousandth of a second) and nanosecond (one billionth of a second). Though SI prefixes may also be used to form multiples of the second (such as “kilosecond,” or one thousand seconds), such units are rarely used in practice. More commonly encountered, non-SI units of time such as the minute, hour, and day increase by multiples of 60 and 24 (rather than by powers of ten as in the SI system). International second. Under the International System of Units, the second is currently defined as the duration of 9,192,631,770 periods of the radiation corresponding to the transition between the two hyperfine levels of the ground state of the caesium-133 atom. This definition refers to a caesium atom at rest at a temperature of 0 K (absolute zero). The ground state is defined at zero magnetic field. The second thus defined is equivalent to the ephemeris second. The international standard symbol for a second is s (see ISO 31-1) Historical origin. Originally, the second was known as a "second minute", meaning the second minute (i.e. small) division of an hour. The first division was known as a "prime minute" and is equivalent to the minute we know today. The factor of 60 comes from the Babylonians who used factors of 60 in their counting system. However, the Babylonians did not subdivide their time units sexagesimally (except for the day). The hour had been defined by the ancient Egyptians as either 1/12 of daytime or 1/12 of nighttime, hence both varied with the seasons. Hellenistic astronomers, including Hipparchus and Ptolemy, defined the hour as 1/24 of a mean solar day. Sexagesimally subdividing this mean solar hour made the second 1/86 400 of a mean solar day. Hellenistic time periods like the mean synodic month were usually specified quite precisely because they were "calculated" from carefully selected eclipses separated by hundreds of years—individual "mean" synodic months and similar time periods cannot be "measured". Nevertheless, with the development of pendulum clocks keeping "mean time" (as opposed to the "apparent time" displayed by sundials), the second became measurable. The seconds pendulum was proposed as a unit of length as early as 1660 by the Royal Society of London. The duration of a beat or half period (one swing, not back and forth) of a pendulum one metre in length on the earth's surface is approximately one second. In 1956 the second was defined in terms of the period of revolution of the Earth around the Sun for a particular epoch, because by then it had become recognized that the Earth's rotation on its own axis was not sufficiently uniform as a standard of time. The Earth's motion was described in Newcomb's Tables of the Sun, which provides a formula for the motion of the Sun at the epoch 1900 based on astronomical observations made between 1750 and 1892. The second thus defined is This definition was ratified by the Eleventh General Conference on Weights and Measures in 1960. The "tropical year" in the definition was not measured, but calculated from a formula describing a tropical year which decreased linearly over time, hence the curious reference to a specific "instantaneous" tropical year. Because this second was the independent variable of time used in ephemerides of the Sun and Moon during most of the twentieth century (Newcomb's Tables of the Sun were used from 1900 through 1983, and Brown's Tables of the Moon were used from 1920 through 1983), it was called the ephemeris second. With the development of the atomic clock, it was decided to use atomic clocks as the basis of the definition of the second, rather than the revolution of the Earth around the Sun. Following several years of work, Louis Essen from the National Physical Laboratory (Teddington, England) and William Markowitz from the United States Naval Observatory (USNO) determined the relationship between the hyperfine transition frequency of the caesium atom and the ephemeris second. Using a common-view measurement method based on the received signals from radio station WWV, they determined the orbital motion of the Moon about the Earth, from which the apparent motion of the Sun could be inferred, in terms of time as measured by an atomic clock. As a result, in 1967 the Thirteenth General Conference on Weights and Measures defined the second of atomic time in the International System of Units (SI) as The ground state is defined at zero magnetic field. The second thus defined is equivalent to the ephemeris second. The definition of the second was later refined at the 1997 meeting of the BIPM to include the statement The revised definition would seem to imply that the ideal atomic clock would contain a single caesium atom at rest emitting a single frequency. In practice, however, the definition means that high-precision realizations of the second should compensate for the effects of the ambient temperature (black-body radiation) within which atomic clocks operate and extrapolate accordingly to the value of the second as defined above. The second in Role Playing Games. Sometimes in RPGs a second is used to refer to a small period of time or a single turn of combat. It is used as a standard moment of time, and does not necessarily refer to a real second, and could be shorter or longer depending on the scenario.  
Anthropologist	An anthropologist is a person who studies human beings and how they behave. The study of human beings is called anthropology.  
Orange	Orange is a color. It is the combination of red and yellow. Orange is the color of an orange fruit, which is the origin of the name of the color. Before the orange fruit was introduced to England in the 1500s, this color was called "red-yellow". Meaning of orange. To the human eye, orange is a very "hot" color, so it gives the sensation of heat. Nevertheless, orange is not as aggressive as red. Orange increases oxygen supply to the brain, produces an invigorating effect, and stimulates mental activity. As a citrus color, orange is associated with healthy food and stimulates appetite. Orange is the color of fall and harvest. In heraldry, orange is symbolic of strength and endurance. Orange is also the color of the fruit of the same name. Orange has very high visibility, so people can use it to catch attention and highlight the most important elements of their design. Orange is very effective for promoting food products and toys. On road signs, the color orange means there is construction work ahead. It is used for these signs because it can easily be seen even at night. Dark orange can mean deceit and distrust. Red-orange corresponds to desire, sexual passion, pleasure, domination, aggression, and thirst for action. Gold evokes the feeling of prestige. The meaning of gold is illumination, wisdom, and wealth. Gold often symbolizes high quality.  
Basque Country	The Basque Country (called Euskal Herria by its inhabitants) is a region in South-West Europe, that is contained within the borders of France and Spain. Description. It is the home of the Basque people. It is located at the western end of the Pyrenees on the Bay of Biscay. Its boundaries are complicated. The greater Basque Country consists of seven districts--four within Spain and three within France. Origins. No one knows when the Basques came to Europe. Many say they have been there since the Neolithic period at the end of the Stone Age, others say even before then. The first notices about the Basque Country are from Roman times. According to evidence, the Basque people already spoke their own language by then. After the fall of Roman Empire, the Basque Country was isolated from the invading Goths. Middle Age. During the Muslim invasion of South Europe, the Basque Country split in two: The Castillian and the Navarran lands. A war with France split the Navarran zone in two. After the Reconquista, the Castillian Basque lands and Navarra became part of the new country: Spain. Since then, Basque people from the Spanish area of the Basque Country has had their own government, and fought to gain the northern part of the Basque Country from France. Now. Today, three of the Basque districts in Spain--Araba, Bizkaia, and Gipuzkoa--form a political unit known as an autonomous community of Spain. This three-district community is called "Euskadi" or the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country. It is one of 17 autonomous communities in Spain. The fourth Basque district in Spain--Navarra--is its own separate autonomous Community of Spain. Population. The entire Basque region covers a surface area of 20,664 km2 (square kilometers). The Autonomous Community of Euskadi covers 7,234 km2 (square kilometers). The population of Euskadi is about 2,000,000--about 5% of the total population of Spain. The Basque language and Spanish are spoken there. The capital is Vitoria-Gasteiz.  
M-theory	M-theory is a new idea in small-particle physics that is part of superstring theory. The idea, or theory, often causes arguments among scientists, because there is no way to test it to see if it is true. If ever proven true, M-theory and string theory would mean big progress for science. String theory. To understand M-theory someone must first have some knowledge of string theory. For hundreds of years, scientists have thought that the simplest objects in the universe are points, like dots. String theory says that this is wrong and that the simplest objects in the universe are shaped like pieces of string. These strings are so small that even when looked at very closely they look like points. Each basic particle is created by the strings vibrating in different patterns. The reason scientists had not thought of this idea for so long is that strings are much harder to work with than points. They seem to break rules such as causality and special relativity, which says that information cannot travel faster than the speed of light. String theory has been developed because of a very important problem that has existed for almost 100 years. Albert Einstein's theory that describes the universe on very large scales (it is called general relativity), disagrees with two theories that describe things on very small scales (they are called quantum mechanics and the standard model). There are also problems with the Standard Model: it includes about 20 numbers that seem to have no explanation; it has too many "basic particles" - some scientists think it needs to have fewer; and it does not include gravity, which is needed to explain weight. Many of these problems can be solved by thinking of basic particles as strings. Now there is only one number with no explanation, which gives the size of the strings. String theory includes particles that cause gravity, called gravitons; finding this out delighted the scientists who work on string theory. So, string theory successfully brings General Relativity and Quantum Mechanics together. But there are some problems with string theory. Normally, we think of the universe as having 4 dimensions, or "basic directions". 3 of these basic directions can be thought of as "up", "forward" and "left". The other direction is time. String theory needs 10 basic directions. These six other directions can be explained if they are "curled up", so they are much too small to see. For example, if by following the path of a spiral, it is possible to go a great distance along it without moving very far. The 6 other directions can be thought of as tiny spirals - strings can move along them a great distance but not seem to move. This can be looked at as a mathematical trick. A trick that has little to do with the real world that can be seen and touched. Such tricks are allowed, if they give a theory that can better tell us how things work. Another problem with string theory is that there are 5 different versions of it. Each version allows different kinds of strings and says they work in different ways. String theory is supposed to be a "theory of everything" so there should be only one version, not 5. M-theory solves this problem. M-theory. In 1995, Edward Witten started what has been called the "Second Superstring Revolution" by introducing M-theory to the world. This theory combines the 5 different string theories (along with a previously abandoned attempt to unify General Relativity and Quantum Mechanics called 11D-Supergravity) into one theory. What Witten actually did was to predict that the fact that all these different theories were connected was a result of there being some underlying theory to which they were all approximations of. This theory is somewhat vague in nature and has not yet been pinned down. Additionally, it was found that the equations that required string theory to exist in 10 dimensions were actually approximations as well. The proposed M-theory would need one extra dimension and instead be a theory that takes place in "11 dimensions". Witten has himself described this idea in simple terms as the general taking position on a hill-top, the extra space-coordinate, to get a better view of the battlefield's two other dimensions. The combination is accomplished by knitting together a web of relationships between each of the string theories called dualities (specifically, S-duality, T-duality, and U-duality). Each of these dualities provides a way of converting one of the string theories into another. T-duality is probably the most easily explained of the dualities. It has to do with the size, written as R, of the curled up dimensions of the string theories. It was discovered that by taking a Type IIA string theory that has a size R and changing the radius to 1/R the result will end up being what is equivalent to a Type IIB theory of size R. This duality, along with the others, creates connections between all 5 (or 6, if supergravity is counted) theories. The fact that these dualities existed had been known before Witten came up with the idea of M-theory. Additional amusement has come for many in guessing what the M might stand for (possibilities include Matrix, Magic, Muffin, Mystery, Mother and Membrane). Regardless of what the M might possibly mean, M-theory has become one of the most interesting and active areas of research in theoretical physics today. "For a more technical explanation, see."  
Jaguar (car)	Jaguar is originally a British car builder acquired by the Indian builder Tata Motors at the beginning of 2008. It was Estabilished in 1922 by William Lyons. It was renamed Jaguar in 1935. Jaguar is owned by the Indian automobile manufacturer Tata Motors Ltd. Jaguar is known for its luxury saloons and sports cars. Jaguar was a private company until it became part of the government-owned British Motor Corporation in 1966. In 1984 it was made private again by Margaret Thatcher. Ford bought Jaguar in 1989. In 1999 it was made part of Ford's "Premier Automotive Group" along with Aston Martin, Land Rover, Volvo and Lincoln. The company was originally located in Blackpool, but moved to Coventry. Today factories are at Browns Lane in Coventry, Castle Bromwich in Birmingham and Halewood in Liverpool. Jaguar owns the Daimler car company (not Daimler-Benz). Jaguar bought Daimler in 1960. Daimler is now just a brand for some of Jaguar's saloons. Jaguar has five different saloons: Vanden Plas, Daimler, XJ8, S-Type, and X-Type. Jaguar builds the XK-8 sports car. Sportscar racing. Jaguar has won many sports car races, like the Le Mans 24 Hours.  
Scientific method	Science and things that are not science (such as pseudoscience) is often defined by whether they use the scientific method. Not all scientists use the above "scientific method" in their day to day work. Sometimes the actual work of science looks nothing like the above. But on the whole it is thought to be a good method for finding out things about the world which are reliable, and is the model for thinking about scientific knowledge usually used by scientists. __notoc__ Example: Dissolving sugar in water. Let's say we are going to do an experiment to find out what things might change how sugar dissolves in a glass of water. Below is one way to do this, following the scientific method step by step. Aim. Does sugar dissolve faster in hot water or cold water? Does the temperature affect how fast the sugar dissolves? This is a question we might want to ask. Creating a hypothesis. Now that we have the question, we need to come up with a hypothesis which can be tested. One hypothesis might be: "Sugar will dissolve faster in hot water than cold water." (It could be the opposite just as well.) This can be tested: either sugar will dissolve faster in hot water than cold water, and prove our hypothesis correct, or it may dissolve faster in cold water, or it may dissolve at the same speed in both, proving our hypothesis wrong. In any case we will know part of the answer to our first questions. Planning the experiment. One simple way to create an experiment would be to dissolve sugar in water of different temperatures and to keep track of how much time it takes for the sugar to dissolve. We will want to make sure that we use the exact same amount of water in each trial, and the exact same amount of sugar. If we did not have the same number of either, we might influence the experiment in a way that would make it impossible to tell if the change in temperature was what was changing the speed of dissolving. To be extra careful, we would also run the experiment in a way that the water temperature does not change during the experiment. This is called "isolating one variable" — which means making sure that only one thing is being changed each time. Running the experiment. We will do the experiment in three trials, which are exactly the same, except for the temperature of the water. Drawing conclusions. If every other part of the experiment was the same (we did not use more sugar one time than the other, we did not stir one time or the other, etc.), then this would be very good evidence that heat affects how fast sugar is dissolved. We cannot know for sure, though, that there is not something else affecting it. An example of a "hidden cause" might be that sugar dissolves faster each time more sugar is dissolved into the same pot. This is probably not true, but if it were, it could make the results exactly the same: three trials, and the last one would be fastest. We have no reason to think that this is true at this time, but we might want to note it as another possible answer. If we wanted to, we might create a new experiment, where we would try to dissolve sugar in the same pot three different times at the same temperature. By not changing the temperature, we would know if it was the pot which was causing the change in dissolving, if there was any change at all. But this would be a different experiment. This example is just meant to show how the results of one scientific experiment can lead to another brand-new experiment. Writing up the results. When writing up the results we would describe exactly what we did, from the first step, including: why we asked the question; what we assumed when asking it; what our hypothesis was; what our experiments were; how we ran the experiments; what the results were (our data table would make them easy for others to read); and what our conclusions were. In the end, our hypothesis seems to be correct. After writing up our conclusions, we would, if we were professional scientists, send them to other scientists to look at, to see if it sounded right to them. Maybe they would have suggestions, or get ideas for new experiments. If we were professional scientists, we would probably have the results published in a research journal, where other scientists would have a chance to agree or disagree. It doesn't matter if other scientists find us out to be wrong later, because this is how knowledge grows in science.  
Gas	A gas is one of the states of matter. Gases are "fluid". This means that they can freely move and expand to fill a container. They can be pushed into a smaller volume, or expanded into a greater volume. A gas has a very low density, because the molecules or atoms in the gas are far apart. The volume of a gas mainly depends on two things: temperature and pressure. If the temperature increases and the pressure is constant, the gas's volume will increase. If the pressure increases and the temperature is constant, the gas's volume will decrease. The word "gas" can also refer to specific gases, such as natural gas, laughing gas (which is nitrous oxide), or acetylene. It can also be referred to the gas that comes out of the body by the digestive system. This happens when there is an air in the last 7 to 8 inches of the colon. Sometimes people use "gas" as a shorter name for gasoline (which is called petrol in some counties), or for the gases used in chemical warfare, like mustard gas.  
Family	A family is a group of people who must have consanguinity and live together. They share the housework and take care of one another, the member of the family have responsibility for each other. Types of families. Three types of family are: "nuclear family", "single-parent family" and "extended family". A nuclear family is made up of father, mother and one or more children living together. A single-parent family is one where either the mother or father is caring for the children in the family. Extended family means father, mother, children, grandparents, uncles, aunts, cousins, nieces and nephews. In most cases in the United States the extended family no longer lives in the same place, but in many countries including China and India, extended families traditionally live together. Divorce and families. Sometimes there is a divorce, and a family is split between the husband and the wife. A judge will decide if and when children live with their mother or father. If the parents re-marry, the children of their new husband or wife are their stepchildren. "Step-" can be put before any relation to show it is from another marriage. If there are children in the new marriage, children from a former marriage are called half-brothers or half-sisters, since they are "half" related. Families are very different in this day and age!!  
Wave (physics)	A wave is a type of change that moves from one place to another. Properties of Waves. Sine waves can be measured too. The shape of a sine wave is given by its amplitude, phase, wavelength and frequency. The speed that the sine wave moves can be measured. The amplitude and wavelength of the sine wave is shown in the picture. The highest point on a wave is called the peak. Though lowest point is called the trough. The peak of a wave and the trough of a wave are always twice the wave's amplitude apart from each other. The part of the wave half way in between the peak and the trough is called the baseline. All waves are made by adding up sine waves. Waves also have amplitudes, phases, wavelengths, frequencies and speeds that can be measured. Waves and Matter. Some waves can move through matter while others cannot. For instance, some waves can move through empty space, light waves for example. Sound waves, on the other hand, cannot move through empty space. Inherently, all waves carry energy from one place to another when they move. In some applications of technology, waves may carry meaningful information from one place to another, such as radio technology. Usually, after a wave moves through matter, the matter is the same as it was before the wave was introduced, though in some cases, matter can be affected by waves traveling through it. In 1922, Louuituitiriy omar gtuis de Broglie found out that waves all waves are also particles, and all particles are also waves. Some Types of Waves. Light waves can move through space. When light waves move through space, there are no particles to move. Sunlight gets to the earth by moving through space. Sunlight brings the earth energy and information.  
Weapon	A weapon is an object that can be used to attack or injure a person or animal. People have used weapons since very ancient times. Some of the oldest remains that we have of ancient people are weapons made of stone. Ancient people also used spears and bows and arrows. After people learned to make things of metal, many people used swords. People also built huge machines which could throw rocks to destroy the walls of enemy cities. Some of these machines were called catapults or siege engines. Later, gunpowder was invented in China and the Europeans began using it to make guns and cannons. These weapons were much better than the older weapons, and helped the Europeans to conquer people in many parts of the world. People in many parts of the world used guns such as rifles and shotguns for hunting animals, and handguns for shooting other people. People continued to invent new weapons. In the 1800s, the machine gun was invented, which could shoot many bullets very fast. When airplanes were invented, people began to use them to shoot enemies and to drop bombs on them. They built tanks which had big guns and strong armor. They began to use land mines, a bomb which soldiers hide in the ground, and which explodes when someone walks on it. Poison gas was used in World War I. In World War II, Germany began to use missiles to carry bombs to England. At the end of World War II, the United States used atomic bombs (nuclear bombs) to destroy the Japanese cities of Hiroshima and Nagasaki. After World War II, people continued to develop new weapons. Now many people are concerned about weapons of mass destruction, weapons that can kill many people very fast, and are usually cheap and easy to make and use. One kind of weapon of mass destruction is poison gas. New kinds of poison gas, such as nerve gas, are much more powerful than the old kinds. Another kind of weapon of mass destruction is disease germs, which could be used to make many people sick and maybe kill them. There are also many land mines which have been buried in the ground in many countries, and which kill and injure many people every year. Old weapons still kill many people in wars and fighting. In wars in Africa in the 1990s and early 21st century, many people were killed with machetes (big knives). People sometimes try to make laws, treaties, and international agreements to try to control weapons because they are worried about all the killing done with them. Laws vary from country to country, for example, in the United States, the "right to keep and bear arms" is guaranteed to all citizens by the Constitution. A country may say that people in that country cannot keep or use guns, or that people can only keep guns when the government says it is okay. Countries may agree with each other that they should not use certain weapons against each other, or should not have a lot of missiles.  
Christmas cake	A Christmas cake is a heavy cake containing much dried fruit and usually having a covering of icing. It is made to be eaten at Christmas. It can also be called fruitcake.  
Christmas cracker	A christmas cracker is a tube of brightly coloured paper. When pulled apart, it makes a pop sound. It usually contains a small gift, a paper hat and a joke. It is genarally used at Christmas parties or Christmas dinner. The British tradition started back in the 1840's.  
Fingerplate	A fingerplate is a plate that is fixed to a door near the handle or keyhole. It is for stopping dirt getting on the door. It is made of metal or glass.  
Floodlight	A floodlight is a large electric light. It makes a very strong and bright beam of light. It is used for lighting the outside of buildings, football grounds, etc. at night.  
Headrest	A headrest is something which supports the head. It is usually a suitably shaped part of the back of a chair or of a front seat in a car. It is designed to support passenger's shoulder part and neck to prevent whiplash in cases of crash at the rear.  
Inkpad	A inkpad is a small box that has ink on a thick piece of cloth or other material. It is used for putting ink onto a marker that is pressed onto paper.  
Jack-in-the-box	A jack-in-the-box is a children's toy which is a box from which a figure on a spring jumps when the top is opened. You twist the knob until the spring shoots out the toy, which you put back in the box and do it all over again.  
London Borough	A London Borough is a district of London. There are 33 of them, including two that also call themselves cities - the City of Westminster (where Buckingham Palace and the Houses of Parliament are) and the City of London (the oldest part of London). Each Borough has its own local government.  
City of London	The City of London is a district of London, capital city of England and the United Kingdom. It is in central London and is the oldest part of the city, dating back to Roman times. The City of London has its own special mayor, the Lord Mayor, and other ancient features of government, dating back to medieval times. It is here in the City of London where most of the United Kingdom's financial trade is done. It is a very small area, covering only a square mile, and has a very small population too (8,000). However, many people come to work here and during work times it can be very busy, with some 300,000 people.  
City of Westminster	The City of Westminster is a London Borough. It is in central London.  
London Borough of Lambeth	The London Borough of Lambeth is a London Borough. It is in south west London, England.  
London Borough of Southwark	The London Borough of Southwark is a London Borough. It is in south east London.  
London Borough of Camden	The London Borough of Camden is a London Borough. It is in north London.  
London Borough of Merton	The London Borough of Merton is a London Borough. It is in south west London.  
Brixton	Brixton is a place in south London. It has a lot of people from the Caribbean. It has a big market and many nightclubs.  
Bankside	Bankside is the old part of the London Borough of Southwark. It is next to the River Thames.  
River Thames	The River Thames is a large river in England. It goes through London the capital city of the United Kingdom. The Thames is 346 kilometres (215 statute miles) long, and its source is near the village of Kemble in the Cotswolds; it flows through Oxford (where it is called "Isis", a shortening of its Latin name), Reading, Maidenhead, Eton and then Windsor. From the outskirts of Greater London, it passes Syon House, Hampton Court, and Richmond (with the famous view of the Thames from Richmond Hill), and Kew. Then it passes through London, then Greenwich and Dartford before it enters the sea in an estuary, The Nore. Part of the area west of London is sometimes called the Thames Valley, and the area east of Tower Bridge development agencies and Ministers is called "Thames Gateway". About 90 kilometres from the sea, above London, the river begins to show the tide caused by the North Sea. It is said that London was made capital of Roman Britain at the spot where the tides reached in 43 AD, but different things have pushed this spot farther up the river in the over 2000 years since then. At London, the water is slightly salty with sea salt. History. Like the Celts who lived in the area, the Romans called the river "Thamesis". The Thames was an important way to go between London and Westminster in the 16th and 17th centuries. The guild of watermen took Londoners back and forth by ferry. One of them, John Taylor, the Water Poet (1580—1653), described the river in a poem. In the 17th century and 18th century, at a time some call the "Little Ice Age", the Thames often froze over in the winter. This led to the first "Frost Fair" in 1607, with a tent city set up on the river with lots of odd amusements, like ice bowling. The last time the river froze over was in 1814. The building of a new London Bridge in 1825 may have helped stop it from freezing: the new bridge had fewer pillars than the old, allowing the river to flow more easily, and stopping it from flowing slowly enough to freeze in cold winters. By the 18th century, the Thames was one of the world's busiest waterways, as London became the centre of the very big British Empire. During this time one of the worst river disasters in England took place on September 3, 1878 on the Thames, when the crowded pleasure boat "Princess Alice" crashed into the "Bywell Castle" killing over 640 people. In the 'Great Stink' of 1858, pollution in the river became so bad that the House of Commons at Westminster had to quit sitting. There was then a a big attempt to hold the city's sewage by building huge sewers on the north and south river banks, led by engineer Joseph Bazalgette. The coming of rail transport and road transport, and the decline of the Empire in the years following 1914, have made the river less important than it was. London itself is no longer used much as a port, and the "Port of London" has moved down the river to Tilbury. The Thames has been greatly cleaned up, and life has returned to its dead waters. In the early 1980s, the Thames Barrier was opened to control flooding. It is used many times a year to stop water damage to London's low lying areas up the river. There are many bridges and tunnels crossing the Thames, including Tower Bridge, London Bridge, Lambeth Bridge, and the Dartford Crossing. The Thames in literature. Many books have been written about the Thames. "Three Men in a Boat" by Jerome K. Jerome describes a boat trip up the Thames. Somewhere near Oxford is where the Liddells were rowing in the poem at the start of "Alice's Adventures in Wonderland". Somewhere near here was where Alice fell asleep in the book. The river is named in both "The Wind in the Willows" and the play "Toad of Toad Hall". In books set in London you will find Sherlock Holmes looking for a boat in "A Study in Scarlet". Bill Sykes kills Nancy just near the river, in Charles Dickens's classic novel " Oliver Twist". Crossings of the Thames. See Crossings of the River Thames for a full article. Famous crossings include  
Queen	A queen is the female head of a royal family. Sometimes she is the wife of a king, but sometimes the queen is the ruler and her husband is not a king. In a country whose system of government is a monarchy, the ruler, or head of state, is decided by inheritance. That is, when a ruler dies their child, or nearest relative, takes over. For much of history most countries were governed in this way, especially in Europe. Some countries elect their monarch instead of using inheritance, like the Holy Roman Empire and Malaysia. If the ruler is male they are called a king. If female they are called a queen. The wife of a king is also called a queen. However the husband of a female ruler is not called a king. The last King of Britain (George VI) had a wife (Elizabeth) who was called Queen Elizabeth. When he died he had no sons, so he was followed by his daughter. She was also called Elizabeth and became Queen Elizabeth II. She was married to The Duke of Edinburgh; but when she became Queen he did not become King. Many people do not think it is good to have a Queen, because she is not elected, though most people in the UK want to keep the royal family.  
Male	Male is one of the two sexes. Most species have two sexes - male and female. Human males are men or boys; human females are women or girls. The two sexes have different sexual organs They also often have different functions. The female gives birth to children with the semen provided by the male. In many human societies, females often were involved in gathering, while men used to hunt. Nowadays, we find that females are just as good as males at doing most tasks.  
Female	A Female is an organism that belongs to the sex that produces ova ("egg" cells) for sexual reproduction. Females of some species also bear offspring. Organisms can either be grouped as male or female. Female humans are called women and their bodies are different from male humans (who are called men). A woman has a vagina between her legs (a male has a penis) which is the main sexual organ. They also have breasts with milk glands, which allow them to nurse (feed) infants. A woman's shoulders are usually not as wide as a man's, but women usually have wider hips than men, because they need wide hips to be able to give birth. Women who become pregnant are encouraged by the medical community to seek professional care from an obstetrician or a gynecologist in order to prevent complications. Likewise, women should see a gynecologist regularly for routine screening exams for cancer.  
Camden	Camden is a place in north London, England. It has a big market which has lots of clothes. It is also good for music. It is an Urban Area  
London Borough of Greenwich	The London Borough of Greenwich is a London Borough. It is in south east London.  
London Borough of Wandsworth	The London Borough of Wandsworth is a London Borough. It is in south west London.  
London Borough of Islington	The London Borough of Islington is a London Borough. It is in north London.  
Bambuco	Bambuco is a type of music from Colombia. The beat of this music is like the European waltz or polka. Bambuco is often folk music. There is a dance that goes with Bambuco music. It is a group dance and has a 6/8 or 3/4 meter. Sometimes Bambuco is called "el bambuco". People think Bambuco started in Africa. It is popular in the Andean region of Colombia and throughout Latin America.  
Christmas	Christmas is a Christian holiday that celebrates the birth of Jesus. Christians believe that he is Christ, the Son of God. Christmas means "Feast day of Christ". However, it is not pronounced as "Christ Mass"; it is pronounced "Kriss-muhss". The day known as Christmas Day is celebrated on the 25th of December (This date is different for Orthodox Christians). Christmas is one of the holiest times of the year, when it is believed by Christians that God sent Jesus to be born and to live among people and to save sinners from a life apart from God. The other important Christian Holy Days are at Easter when the death and resurrection of Jesus are celebrated. The season of Christmas begins on a Sunday, about four weeks before Christmas Day and is called Advent. It ends on January 6, known as the "Epiphany" or the Twelfth Day of Christmas. Christmas is celebrated by Christian people all over the world, and is also kept as a time of celebration by many people who are not Christian but enjoy the traditions. The traditions are different from country to country, but they nearly always include a feast, giving gifts or cards, and enjoying church or public festivities such as singing Christmas songs. Christmastime, as it is often called, is in the winter of the Northern Hemisphere, at a time when there were already ancient festivals. Some of the traditions that are used for Christmas are older than Christmas, or come from other non-Christian traditions such as Yule. Other festivals at this time of year include Jewish Hanukkah. Modern traditions of Christmas often focus on the giving of gifts. Stores use this time of year to sell a lot of goods, and so start advertising for "Holiday Season" shopping for at least a month before Christmas, often showing a Santa Claus. Christmas in the Gospels. Christmas celebrates the birth of Jesus. The story of how this happened is told in part of the Bible known as the Gospels. There are four Gospels telling the life of Jesus. The Gospel of Luke tells the most about his birth, and the Gospel of Matthew tells another part of the story. The Gospel of John says that Jesus came from God to bring his "Word" or message to all people. The Gospels say that many years before Jesus' birth, prophets had told a promise to the Jewish people that God would send them a Messiah, or holy teacher. Christians believe that the promised Messiah was Jesus. His mother was a young woman called Mary, who was engaged, but not yet married to a carpenter called Joseph. Joseph found out that Mary was pregnant and was upset. He was wondering what he should do, when an angel came from God to tell him that the baby was the Holy One. The angel said that he must "name the baby". This was a sign that he would take care of it like his own child. At this time, the Middle East was ruled by the Romans. An order came that all the people had to travel back to their home town, to put their names on the taxation lists. Joseph took his new wife to Bethlehem. There was nowhere for them to stay, except a stable where the animals slept. This is where the baby was born. Joseph called him Jesus, as the angel had said. The baby Jesus had two lots of visitors. On the night he was born, angels told some shepherds in the fields that they would find a newborn king lying in an animals' feed bin (or "manger"). Jesus' other visitors were some wise men who saw a new star in the sky and followed it, until they found the house where the family was now living and gave the young child expensive gifts of gold, incense and a precious herb called myrrh. (The wise men are often traditionally called the Three Kings, because there were three very expensive presents.) All these parts of the Christmas story are remembered and celebrated in different ways at Christmas: in pictures, songs, plays, stories and in models that are called "creches" or "presepe". Date of celebration. Most Christian countries of the world use a calendar called the Gregorian Calendar, but some churches use a calendar called the Julian Calendar. Most Christians, such as those of the Catholic and Protestant Churches, celebrate the birth of Jesus on December 25. The Eastern Orthodox Church still uses the Julian Calendar. They celebrate Christmas on December 25 in the Julian Calendar, but because of the difference between the calendars it is the 7th of January in the modern Gregorian Calendar. Some Christians, like Jehovah's Witnesses, do not celebrate Christmas because there is no instruction from Jesus in the Bible which tells Christians to celebrate his birth. Mormons celebrate Christmas on December 25th but they believe that Christ's actual birth took place on April 6th. Nowadays historians believe that Jesus was probably not born on December 25, or even at that time of year. It is more likely that he was born in the Spring or the Autumn. It is thought that the date of Christmas was chosen because there was already an important feast at that time: the Zoroastrians and Romans used to celebrate a feast to the god Mithras on December 25th. Historians believe this date was used by the Catholic Church to replace the pagan rites that took place at that time of the year. Advent. The Season of Advent, which begins on a Sunday about four weeks before Christmas Day, is celebrated by the Catholic and Anglican Churches, as well as some others. It is a time for people to prepare themselves for two different things: for the coming of the baby Jesus and Christmas, and for the second coming of Jesus, when he shall rule over all the Earth in peace. Not all Christian people remember Advent. Some people use it as a time of fasting, study, meditation and prayer. Special Advent Calendars are made for children, with pictures or treats for each day of Advent. Generally, Advent is a time when many people are very busy in preparation for Christmas Day, cleaning and decorating, buying food and presents, writing cards and letters, and cooking the Christmas feast. Celebrations. Before the 4th century AD, Christians could only worship and celebrate in secret. The feast of Christmas probably began while Constantine was the Emperor of Rome, because it was he who made Christianity a legal religion and built some of Rome's oldest churches. Some old stone coffins or "sarcophagi" from this time are carved with pictures of Mary and baby Jesus and the Wise Men. Through the Middle Ages Christmas was celebrated with feasting, singing and plays. The plays were held in churches, and also in castles and in market places, where a big hay waggon was sometimes used as a stage. Because Advent was a time of prayer and preparation, most parties were held after Christmas, rather than before it. The main pre-Christmas celebration was the Feast of St. Nicholas on December 6. In some countries, particularly the Netherlands, the tradition grew for children to receive presents on this day, rather than Christmas Day. The name of Saint Nicholas, is now remembered in many countries as Santa Claus. Another traditional festivity that takes place during Advent is the Feast of St Lucy (Santa Lucia) on December 13th which is particularly celebrated in Scandinavia, where girls take part in candlelit processions, and the daughters of the house must rise early to bring coffee or chocolate to the family. For many centuries, the celebration of Christmas often began with a church service or mass, which lasted from late at night to after midnight on Christmas morning. Christmas Day was a time of feasting. On the following day, the Feast of St Stephen, people from rich households would carry boxes of food out to the street for the poor and hungry. Many people would go back to work but employers would give gifts of money to their workers. The Holy Days continued with the feast of St John and Holy Innocents' Day. The feasting and parties ended on the Feast of the Epiphany, the day of the Three Wise Men, often called the "Three Kings". The season is nowadays remembered by the song "The Twelve Days of Christmas". William Shakespeare wrote a play to be performed as part of the celebration, called "Twelfth Night". Nowadays, for many people, Christmas has become a time when having parties, sending messages to family and friends and giving presents has become more important than the celebration of Jesus' birth. Manufacturers and stores have responded to the feasting and present-giving with lots of advertising, decorations and displays. This is known as Commercialism, and many Christian people are annoyed by it. In the US, the Christmas displays are put up right after Thanksgiving, late in November. In some countries such as Australia, department stores and shopping malls put up decorations at the beginning of November. Town councils celebrate by decorating streets and squares, and providing Christmas entertainment for shoppers. In countries of the Southern Hemisphere, where Christmas falls in Summer, there is a tradition of open-air Carol Services, often organised by the town council, which are attended by thousands of people. Many Christians celebrate Christmas by attending church, and with prayers and singing. Many people are worried that the "true meaning of Christmas" has been lost, because of the emphasis on giving and receiving presents. However, when most people, even those who are not Christian, talk about the "true meaning of Christmas", they are thinking of the words that the angels spoke to the shepherds: "Peace on Earth and Goodwill to all people!" Christmas Traditions. Christmas traditions are of several types. There are traditions of the church, traditions which are public celebrations and traditions that are kept by families. These traditions are different in different times, places, cultures and even families. Traditions of the Church===. The celebration of Christmas is a very important time for churches. Almost every church has special services or celebrations. Here are some of the ways that churches celebrate Christmas. The Crib. It is the custom in many churches to set up a Crib (or "Creche") scene of the "Nativity" or birth of Jesus. The first scene of this type was set up by St. Francis of Asissi in the 13th century. They have been very popular in Italy ever since then, and the custom has spread to other countries. Nativity scenes can be large with life-sized statues, or they can be tiny enough to fit in a matchbox. They are made of many different things including carved and painted wood, brightly coloured ceramics (pottery), painted paper glued to boards, and mixtures of material with clay, wood, cloth, straw and metal used for different parts. Advent wreaths. The Advent wreath is a circle of leaves, usually pine boughs, ivy and holly, with five candles in it which is hung up in a church. The candles are lit on each Sunday in Advent, and the central candle is lit on Christmas morning. Churches are often decked with green branches and leaves, and many churches also have a Christmas tree. Bible readings. Each year at Christmas there are a series of Bible readings from the Gospels that tell the story of the birth of Jesus. These are combined with other readings that tell about the sinfulness of humans, and how God promised to send the Messiah. On Christmas morning the main Bible reading that is usually used in churches is not part of the story of Jesus' birth. It is the part of the Gospel of John that says that Jesus is the "Word of God" (God's communication with people) who was with God before the world began, and who came to earth to teach all people to become the children of God. Carols by Candlelight. A popular tradition in many churches is the Carol Service which is often lit only by candles. The carol service generally has lots of singing and Bible readings. There is a tradition in England which began in the Temple Church in London and has now spread to many other places for a service of "Nine Lessons and Carols". The lessons are the Bible readings. Some carols are sung by a choir and others by the choir and people (the congregation). Every year one of these services is recorded in a large English Church, often King's College Chapel in Cambridge, and is broadcast on radio and television to be enjoyed by people who love good music and carol singing, but particularly for people who cannot go to a Christmas service. Public and commercial celebrations. Many cities and towns celebrate Christmas by putting up decorations. These may be banners and bunting which are strung from buildings or lampposts. They may be Christmas lights which can also decorate buildings and street trees. Many large cities put up a huge Christmas tree in a public place, such as those in Trafalgar Square in London, Times Square in New York and Martin Place in Sydney. This is often combined with an appeal to the people of the city to give money or gifts to help the poor and needy. In many cities, the usual shopping hours are made longer before Christmas so that workers have more time to buy Christmas food and presents. Shop windows are often decorated with Christmas scenes, with large department stores often having animated scenes to entertain children. Shopping malls and big stores often have a Santa Claus, who sits on a throne, while children tell him what they want for Christmas, and have their photos taken. Many towns hold Christmas parades, street entertainment and concerts. Some towns have a tradition of carols with a choir and entertainers in the town hall, while in Australia and New Zealand, these concerts of Christmas entertainment and carols are usually held outdoors, in parks or even on beaches, with families bringing picnics. The arrival of Santa Claus at the end of the evening is accompanied by a firework display. A traditional part of Christmas is the theatre entertainment. This includes the performance of classical music such as Handel's Messiah as well as orchestral concerts and band recitals. Pantomimes are often played at Christmas and favourites include "Peter Pan and Wendy" and "Cinderella". Many children's movies are released during the Christmas season. Because many people feel very lonely, hungry and sad at Christmas, many cities, churches, charities and service organisations try to help the poor and lonely by providing Christmas food and gifts for poor families, and Christmas parties for people who are hungry or who are lonely and without any friends or family. Family celebrations. Family celebrations are often very different from each other, depending on where a family comes from, and the customs that have grown in particular families. Family get-togethers. Most families think of Christmas as a time to get together with other members of the family. People often travel from far away to be with other family members at Christmas. Those people who cannot travel often make long-distance phone calls on Christmas Day. Many people also see Christmas as a time to reach out to others that they know might be lonely, and invite them to dinner on Christmas Day. Christmas is seen as a time for people of all ages to have fun together, for cousins to get to know each other, for grandparents to see their grandchildren and for the family to admire the babies that have been born during the year. Big family parties are supposed to be a time of joy, but unfortunately some family members often store up their troubles and have big fights at Christmas time. Family traditions are very different. Some families might all go off to church together, to a Carol Service, a Midnight Mass, or a Christmas Morning service. Some families are pulled out of bed very early by children who want to open their presents. In other families, presents are given on St. Nicholas Day, on Christmas Eve or not until after church on Christmas morning. The Christmas feast might start on Christmas Eve, with a special breakfast on Christmas morning, or at midday on Christmas Day. Some families have a tradition of carol singing, and might go around the streets, to hospitals and other such places singing with members of their church. Other families like to watch certain television programs together, which might include carol services and the Queen's Message. Some families use Christmas as a time to play music and sing together, or to read a favourite book such as "A Christmas Carol" by Charles Dickens. In countries in the Southern Hemisphere, a visit to the beach or a swim in a pool is often part of the Christmas Day tradition. Christmas dinner. Christmas Dinner, usually eaten in the middle of the day, is an important part of the family celebration. The food differs from country to country and also from family to family. In the Northern Hemisphere, roasted meat and vegetables is generally the main course of the meal. Often several types of meat are served, which may include turkey, ham, roast beef or lamb. There are often several courses, with special treats that are usually only eaten at Christmas. In English-speaking countries, the traditional dessert is Christmas plum pudding. Nowadays these are often bought from bakers, but many people make their own to a family recipe. The tradition came from the Middle Ages when the pudding was used to preserve some of the fruit from the Autumn until the mid-winter. A traditional pudding is baked six weeks before Christmas and is left tied up in a cloth, in a cool place. Stirring the pudding is sometimes a family tradition, with everyone making a wish as they stir. Traditionally a silver coin would be stirred into the pudding, to bring luck to the person who found it. Nowadays most coins cannot be used because they taste horrible and may be poisonous. Some families use old coins or silver charms. On Christmas Day the pudding must be boiled in a pot for several hours. When it is served, the cloth is cut off, the pudding is soused in brandy and set alight before it is carried to the table. Many families have a Christmas Cake or a special bread instead of a pudding (or as well as a pudding). These are very different depending on the country, but often have "marzipan" which is made from almonds and is traditional in many countries at Christmas. In France "Buche de Noel" or gingerbread men and women are decorated and hung on the Christmas tree. In Scotland a pastry biscuit called shortbread is made and has become a popular tradition in many countries. A German tradition is "pfeffernüsse", spiced cookies rolled in powdered sugar. Other Christmas food includes raisins, sultanas, ginger, Turkish delight, almonds, chocolates, caramel toffee, candy canes and oranges. Many families also prepare mulled wine which is warmed with cinnamon and nutmeg or egg nogs, a sweet drink made of milk, sugar, eggs, nutmeg and sometimes alcohol. In the Southern Hemisphere, the traditional roast dinner is often replaced with cold cuts of meat, and served with salads. The first course might be prawn cocktail or a cold soup like borsch. The plum pudding might be served with icecream. White wine and beer are both served cold (beer is kept in a refrigerator). Christmas dinner may be served on the veranda, or sometimes as a picnic. Tree and decorations. In most homes when Christmas is celebrated, people set up a Christmas tree in the house. This old Yuletide custom began in Germany as the "Tannenbaum" (German for "Fir Tree"). These are traditionally evergreens, the best type being the Fir Tree which does not shed its needles or lose its fragrance. The tree may be a cut tree that is bought from a plantation or taken from the forest. Artificial trees are sometimes preferred to real trees, particularly in Australia where there are no Fir Trees and the only types that can be bought are very messy and dry out fast in the hot weather. The Christmas tree is decorated with lights, shiny coloured balls, sparkly tinsel and other ornaments. A wreath of leaves or pine is often put on the front door of a house as a sign of welcome. Other plants that have special significance at Christmas are holly which is used as decoration and mistletoe which is hung in the centre of a room. The tradition is that people who meet under the mistletoe must kiss. Many people decorate their homes at Christmas time. These decorations and the Christmas tree are generally inside, but may be put where they can also be seen through a window by people passing by. In the mid 20th century there grew up a custom for decorating the outside of houses as well. These decorations may be just a few lights around the porch, or hundreds of lights and colourful Christmas figures decorating the whole house and garden. Some neighbourhoods hold competitions for the best-decorated house, and driving around the streets to look at them has become another family tradition. Cards and presents. The giving of gifts at Christmas comes from several different ideas. One is that God gave his son, Jesus, to the world at Christmas. There is also the story of the Wise Men who came to the baby Jesus with three gifts, gold, frankincense and myrrh. For many centuries it has been the custom for people to give small gifts at Christmas, and also to give generously to the poor and needy to help them through the winter. Another tradition has become linked to this one, and the result is the tradition of Santa Claus, or Father Christmas as he is sometimes called, and who is nowadays thought by many children to be the bringer of presents. In the 4th century, in a Greek village that is now part of Turkey, there was a good man who would secretly given presents to the poor to help them. He became a bishop and is called Saint Nicholas. Over the centuries, he became a very popular saint and lots of churches were named after him. He was very popular in places where there were lots of sailors. One of those places was the Netherlands. In the Netherlands and many other European countries, presents are given on the feast of Saint Nicholas, December 6th. Traditionally, the presents are not big, and are sometimes hidden, or have a funny joke or poem that must be read. In many towns of Europe a man dressed in bishop's robes comes on a horse or in a boat, acting as St. Nicholas. His name was often shortened to Sante Claus, or Santa Claus in English. In English speaking countries, where presents are usually given on Christmas day, not December 6th, Santa Claus, (or Father Christmas) is usually thought of as coming on Christmas Night, when his magic sleigh is pulled across the sky by reindeer, and he comes into houses through the chimney. While in Europe, children put out their shoes for St. Nicholas, the English tradition is to hang up stockings (or long socks) in front of the fireplace. Santa Claus would traditionally fill the socks or shoes with nuts, raisins, chocolates and an orange. Nowadays children usually get much more expensive presents, and hang up pillow cases or have the presents in a big pile under the Christmas tree. Another Christmas tradition is the sending of cards to friends and relatives. These contain warm greetings and may also have a letter telling all the things that have happened to the person or family during the year. Other holidays around Christmas. There are other holidays that take place around Christmas time. The Jewish people celebrate Chanukkah, although this feast of lights is not their holiest time of the year. Chanukkah is a remembrance of the miracle of Jewish survival against mighty empires (on this occasion, 165 BCE, against the Seleucid Greeks). A popular later legend suggested that one day's worth of oil for the candelabra in the Temple in Jerusalem miraculously lasted for 8 days whilst new oil was prepared, after the Jews had fought off their enemy and rededicated the Temple. Some African Americans celebrate Kwanzaa, although many African Americans have a deeply rooted Christian faith, so they may celebrate Christmas first and Kwanzaa as a cultural versus spiritual celebration. For Wiccans and Neopagans, Yule celebrates the rebirth of the earth during the winter solstice (usually December 20-22). At Yule, the Holly King, God of winter, is taken over by the Oak King, God of Spring or rebirth, also known as the Divine Child. Common shared traditions between Yule and Christmas include: caroling, decorating the Yule tree, kissing under the mistletoe and honoring Kriss Kringle (Santa Claus), the Germanic God of Yule. Some secular or non religious groups also celebrate Yule on the Winter Solstice as the middle of winter and for its cultural importance.  
Adjective	An adjective is a name for a word that modifies (describes) a noun. Nouns are words that name a place, a person, or a thing. An adjective is a word that gives more information about the noun that goes with it (accompanies). Word Order. As a rule, in English, the adjective comes before the noun it describes. It's still an adjective, because we could have "the blue sky", "the funny joke", and "the crazy man". The adjective is still describing the noun though they are not side by side. Comparative and Superlative. Sometimes we have different forms of the same adjective. If one joke makes us laugh more than another joke, then that joke is funnier. This is called the comparative form of the adjective. The day that is colder than any other is the coldest day. This is the superlative form of "cold". Some adjectives need additional words when we want to compare them. For instance, one car may be cheaper than another, but the second car may be more reliable. (We use "more reliable", instead of "reliabler".) Reliable is being trustworthy or worthy of trust, deserving confidence. For short adjectives ending in a consonant like cold, black, fast, one adds the suffix er to make a comparison of greater magnitude. Example: The North Pole is colder than Florida. The greatest possible comparison is made by adding the suffix est. Example: In the wirnter, the North Pole is the coldest place on earth. For long adjectives like intelligent, conscientious, comprehensive, one uses the word more to make a comparison of greater magnitude. Example: Children are more intelligent than adults. To make the greatest possible comparison one uses the word most. Example: She is the most conscientious objector I have ever known. Nouns as noun modifiers. In the English language, it is possible for a noun to modify (describe) another noun. Example: take the noun 'angel' and the noun 'face'. Put them together and the result is 'angel face'. Make one up with 'country' and 'house'. Now, think of two nouns and put them together. Adjectives and adverbs. One can make adverbs from some adjectives by adding the suffix ly. Example: take the adjective 'beautiful', the adverb is beautifully. One can do it the other way around: take an adverb like 'presumably', the adjective is 'presumable' (assumable). 'Presumable innocense' means the accused is assumed to be innocent until proven guilty (which is not always practiced everywere, however). The adjective 'guilty' becomes the adverb 'guiltily' and viceversa (the other way round)(the opposite), the adverb 'guiltily' becomes the adjective 'guilty'. As a rule, 'dogs chase cats' but not viceversa. Cats seldom chase dogs. 100 Adjectives used in Basic English. able • acid • angry • automatic • beautiful • black • boiling • bright • broken • brown • cheap • chemical • chief • clean • clear • common • complex • conscious • cut • deep • dependant • early • elastic • electric • equal • fat • fertile • first • fixed • flat • free • frequent • full • general • good • great • gray • hanging • happy • hard • healthy • high • hollow • important • kind • like • living • long • male • married • material • medical • military • natural • necessary • new • normal • open • parallel • past • physical • political • poor • possible • present • private • probable • quick • quiet • ready • red • regular • responsible • right • round • same • second • separate • serious • sharp • smooth • sticky • stiff • straight • strong • sudden • sweet • tall • thick • tight • tired • true • violent • waiting • warm • wet • wide • wise • yellow • young •  
Paper	Paper is a thin sheet of fibers pressed together. People write on paper, and books are made of paper. Paper can absorb liquids such as water, and so people can clean things with paper. Paper making. Paper is normally made from the wood of trees. Wood is ground up and mixed with water and other chemicals to make a thin liquid called "paper pulp". Paper pulp can be bleached, to make black paper, or dyes can be added to make colored paper. This pulp is pressed into sheets of paper. When the sheets are dry, they are cut into pieces of paper. Sometimes paper is made glossy (shiny) by adding clay or other materials. Sometimes paper is made from other kinds of paper. This is an example of recycling. Not all paper is made from wood. Other kinds of fiber can be used also. People make paper from cotton, linen, and hemp. Uses of paper. Paper is used for writing and printing. Books, magazines and newspapers are printed on paper. Paper is often used for money. Paper used for money is often made in very special ways, to make it hard for people to print their own money. A piece of paper money is called a banknote, a bill, or a note. Paper can be used for cleaning. Special forms of paper are used, such as paper towels, facial tissues, or toilet paper. Pretty paper can be used as decoration. It can be pasted onto the walls of a room; this is called wallpaper. Paper can be used to wrap gifts. This is called wrapping paper or gift wrap. Some kinds of paper are strong and can be used in boxes and other packaging material. Sometimes several layers of paper are held together with glue, to make cardboard. History of paper. Many centuries ago – as early as 3000 BC – people in Egypt made a kind of paper from the papyrus plant. This is where the word "paper" comes from. The people of Greece and Rome learned to do this too. Around the year 105, a man in China named Ts'ai Lun thought of a way to make paper from cotton rags. People in Japan learned how to do this with fiber from the mulberry tree, in the year 610. After that these were developed into a type of paper made in Japan. This is called Japanese paper or Washi. This Chinese discovery spread to India, and then to the Middle East, and then to Italy. A chance of spreading to the Middle East was The Battle of Talas in 751. Then army of the Arabs captured soldiers of the Chinese. There were paper maker in the captive soldiers. In 757 a paper mill was built at Samarkand. Middle Eastern people learned to use linen as paper raw material and to use starch made from flour as chemical additive. These papers were widely well-known in the Middle East. The Italians used hemp and linen rags. In 1276 the first Italian paper mill was built at Fabriano and until 14 century Italy became a paper supplier in Europe. In 1282 the first watermark was introduced in Bologna. Paper was hard to make, and it cost a lot of money. In the 19th century, new machines were made that could make paper out of wood fibers. This helped to make paper cheap enough for everyone to buy. Around the same time, other inventions were made, like the pencil, the fountain pen, and a printing press that used steam power. Because of these new things, it was easy for people to write letters, to buy books and newspapers, and to keep records of what they did. Today some of the largest paper-producing countries are USA, Canada, Finland, Sweden and Russia. Paper is produced in large factories called "paper mills". They can produce hundreds of thousands of tonnes of paper each year.  
Power	The Chinese call it chi. The Japanese call it kiai.  
States of matter	There are four common states of matter (or physical forms of matter) on earth: solid, liquid, plasma, and gas. In a "solid" the positions of atoms are fixed relative to each other over long time. That is due to the cohesion between molecules. This cohesion is provided by metallic, covalent or ionic bonds. But there are many types of intermolecular bonds in the different materials classes: ceramics, metals, semiconductors or polymers, and each material or compound may be different. Only solids can sustain a stress without continually deforming, that means that they can be resistant to deformation. When a solid becomes a liquid, this is called melting. When a solid becomes a gas, this is called sublimation. In a "liquid", ionic interactions between molecules are strong enough to keep molecules in contact, but not strong enough to fix a particular structure, and the molecules can continually move with respect to each other. In a "gas", the chemical bonds are not strong enough to hold atoms or molecules together, and thus a gas is a collection of independent, unbonded molecules which interact mainly by collision. The most common state of matter in the universe is plasma. Less familiar phases include: quark-gluon plasma; Bose-Einstein condensates and fermionic condensates; strange matter; superfluids and supersolids, and possibly string-net liquids.  
Perimeter	In geometry, perimeter is the distance around a flat object. For example, all four sides of a square rhombus have the same length, so a rhombus with side length 2 inches would have a perimeter of 8 inches (2+2+2+2=8). Real-life objects have perimeters as well. A football field, including the end zones, is 360 feet long and 160 feet wide. So the perimeter of the field is 360+160+360+160=1040 feet. The perimeter of a circle is usually called the circumference. It may be calculated by multiplying the diameter times "Pi". Pi is a constant which is equal to 3.14159; however, the places to the right of the decimal are endless. The number of places used depend on the accuracy required for the result.  
Nation	A nation is an area of land ruled by a person or group of people. No one else can make rules for that nation. The word "nation" comes from a word meaning "birth" or "place of birth." The adjective is national. Some nations are people with a particular belief, such as the Vatican City, or ethnic group, such as Armenia. Others share an idea, such as Democracy in the United States or Communism in China. Some nations are controlled by a small minority who have all the power, such as Saudi Arabia, who hold the nation together with the use of this power. Some of these may also be combined. The highest lawful authority of most nations is a constitution, which is a document which states clearly what kinds of power the rulers have and how new laws must be made. Many others are ruled by a single person who holds an "office" (position), such as a King or Pope, or from a long legal tradition without an official Constitution, such as the United Kingdom.  
Metal	Metals are hard, shiny materials that are used a lot. Some metals are aluminium, copper, iron, steel, tin, gold, lead, silver, titanium, uranium, and zinc. The study of metals is very important and is called metallurgy. The ways that metals are alike (properties of metals). Most metals are hard, shiny, they feel heavy (dense) and melt only when they are very hot. Lumps of metal will make a bell-like sound when they are hit with something heavy (they are sonorous). Heat and electricity can easily pass through a metal (it is conductive). A lump of metal can be beaten into a thin sheet (it is malleable) or can be pulled into thin wires (it is ductile). Use of metals. Metals are very useful to people. They are used to make tools because they can be strong and easy to shape. Iron and steel have been used to make bridges, buildings, or ships. Some metals are used to make items like coins because they are hard and will not wear away quickly. For example copper (which is shiny and red in color), aluminum (which is shiny and white), gold (which is yellow), and silver and nickel (also white). Some metals, like steel, can be made sharp so they can be used to make knives, axes or razors. Metals with high value, like gold, silver and platinum are often used to make jewelery. Metals are also used to make fasteners and screws. Pots used for cooking can be made from copper, aluminum, steel or iron. Lead is very heavy and dense and can be used as ballast in boats to stop them from turning over. Alloys of metals. People first began making things from metal over 6000 years ago, when they discovered how to get copper from its ore. They then learned how to make a harder alloy, bronze, by adding tin to the copper. About 3000 years ago, they discovered iron. By adding small amounts of carbon to iron, they found that they could make a particularly useful alloy – steel. Metals in chemistry. In chemistry, metal is a word for a group of chemical elements that have certain properties. It is easy for the atoms of a metal to lose an electron and become positive ions, or cations. In this way, metals are not like the other two kinds of elements - the nonmetals and the metalloids. On the periodic table, we can draw a straight line from the element boron (symbol B) to the element polonium (symbol Po). The elements that this line passes through are the metalloids. The elements that are above and to the right of this line are the nonmetals. The rest of the elements are the metals. Most of the properties of metals are because the atoms in the metal do not hold onto their electrons very tightly. Each atom is separated from the others by a thin layer of valence electrons. However, some metals are different. An example is the metal sodium. It is soft, melts at a low temperature, and is so light, it floats on water. People should not try this though, because another property of sodium is that it explodes when it touches water. Most metals are chemically stable, and do not react easily. (Some of the metals do react. These are the alkali metals like sodium (symbol Na) and the alkaline earth metals like calcium (symbol Ca).) When metals do react, they often react with oxygen. The oxides of metals are basic. The oxides of nonmetals are acidic. However, most of the elements on the periodic table are metals. Compounds, which have metal atoms combined with other atoms to make molecules, are probably the most common things on the Earth. For example, common salt is a compound of sodium. Metals in history. The use of metals is said to be the thing that makes people different from animals. Before they used metals, people made tools from stones, wood, and animal bones. This is now called the Stone Age. No-one knows when the first metal was found and used. It was probably what is called native copper, which is sometimes found in large lumps on the ground. People learned to make this into copper tools and other things, although, for a metal, it is quite soft. When it was melted over fire, people learned how to make an alloy called bronze, which is much harder and stronger than copper. People made knives and weapons from bronze. This time in human history, after about 3300 BC is often called the Bronze Age, that is, the time of bronze tools and weapons. Around the year 1200 BC some people learned to make iron tools and weapons. These were even harder and stronger than bronze and this was an advantage in war. The time of iron tools and weapons is now called the Iron Age Metals have been very important in human history and civilization. Iron and steel were important in the making of machines. Gold and silver were used as money in order to allow people to trade, that is, exchange goods and services over long distances. Many people thought that finding metals was a way to get rich. There have been many times when gold was found and people moved quickly in large numbers to those places for example, Central and South America after the year 1500, and many places after the year 1800 (the United States of America, Canada, Australia, New Zealand and South Africa). These are often called Gold Rushes. Metals in astronomy. In astronomy, a metal is any element other than hydrogen or helium. This is because these two elements (and sometimes lithium) are the only ones that form outside stars. In the sky, a telescope can see the signs of metals and then the astronomer knows that there are stars.  
German	It can mean the German language. It can mean a person from the country the Federal Republic of Germany, or one of the earlier countries in the same area. When talking about a person, it can mean someone who lives in Germany, or someone who thinks of himself or herself as 'German'.  
Indonesia	Indonesia is a country in Southeast Asia. It is part of the Malay Archipelago. It has 18,108 islands. 6,000 of these islands are inhabited. The most important islands of Indonesia are Java, Bali, Borneo, Sulawesi, and Sumatra. The capital of Indonesia is Jakarta, on Java. The current president is Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono. Modern Indonesia began on the 17th of August 1945. At 10 o'clock on that Friday morning, Ir. Soekarno read Indonesia's Declaration of Independence. Indonesia Independence Day is a national holiday. Indonesia is the fourth most populous country in the world with a population of 238,452,952 (2004 est.) There are 111 inhabitants per km². The official language of Indonesia is Bahasa Indonesia, but a total of 737 languages are spoken throughout Indonesia mostly confined to remote tribal groups. Other languages widely spoken in Indonesia include Javanese, Balinese and Sundanese. The closest countries are Papua New Guinea, Malaysia, and East Timor which share land borders with Indonesia. Other neighbouring countries are Australia to the south, Singapore to the north-west, and Phillipines to the north-east. The religion that most people follow is Islam. Other religions include Christianity (Protestant, and Roman Catholic), Hinduism, and Buddhism. Pre World War II. Indonesia has written history dating to the 7th century. Before the colonial Dutch came in the 1700s, Indonesia consisted of many kingdoms in perpetual warfare. Indonesia was ruled by the Netherlands from the 17th century until World War II. Modern Indonesia. During World War II, the Japanese drove out the Dutch and took charge of Indonesia. After the Japanese surrender, Indonesia claimed its independence on the 17th of August 1945. The proclamation was read by Ir. Soekarno in Jakarta. Soekarno later became Indonesia's first President. British troops came into Indonesia to restore peace and to rescue Europeans who had been prisoners of the Japanese. The British troops also had the job of shipping home 300,000 Japanese troops. The Indonesian Republicans fought the British troops, because it was expected that the British would give Indonesia back to the Dutch. The Indonesian Republicans killed many of the Japanese prisoners, before they could be sent home. They also began killing people from minority groups who might be against the new Republic. Many European and Indonesian European people were killed. Many Chinese business people and other minority groups were killed or made homeless. In Java there were many thousands of homeless people. In 1946, the Dutch came back. When the British left in 1947, there were 55,000 Dutch soldiers in Indonesia. The Dutch action was called "Operatie Product" or "Politionele Acties". The Indonesian Republicans fought the Dutch until 1949. But the Indonesian Republicans were badly organised and often fought among themselves. As the Dutch forced the Republican soldiers out of different areas, they moved in more troops until there was 100,000 Dutch troops. The Dutch refused to obey the United Nations who said they should stop the fighting in Indonesia. The United States of America organised for meetings between Dutch and Indonesian leaders. The Dutch finally agreed to recognise Indonesia's independence in November 1949. Because of the fighting and the bad organistion, it took a long time for the country to become peaceful, and for the economy to get better. Many Indonesian soldiers had died, between 45,000 and 100,000. Also, a very large number of civilian (people not in the army), Indonesians, Europeans and Chinese, had died; perhaps as many as 200,000. Indonesian people and culture. There are people of many different cultural groups living in Indonesia.  
Property	Ownership. Property is something that belongs to someone. If someone buys a car, the car becomes their property. The Statue of Liberty is the property of the people of the United States. People who deal with buying or selling houses will often talk about "properties", meaning houses, apartments, offices etc. Characteristics. Properties can also mean the things that make something interesting: the things that give it its characteristics. For example: "Elasticity is a property of rubber", in other words: rubber is elastic. This is close to the meaning for chemistry (see below). Chemistry. In chemistry, properties refer to the things that describe a material. For example, water "is liquid under normal conditions", "boils at 100 degrees", "is colourless", "is odorless", and so on. All these descriptions are properties of water. Theatre. In the theatre properties are things which are used in the performance of a play or opera. Anything that is used but is not part of the scenery (the set) is a property (or "prop" for short), e.g. furniture, a tree, a book that an actor pretends to read, a pipe that they smoke. The props are looked after by a properties master. Sometimes, for small things like books or fans, it is the actor who is responsible for making sure he has the prop. This is called a "personal prop".  
Crusade	When the Crusades happened, Muslims controlled the Holy Land. The Holy Land is a place that is very important for the three major monotheistic religions: Islam, Judaism, and Christianity. There are many important religious sites in the Holy Land. This is the land now called Israel or Palestine. Muslims got control of Nazareth, Bethlehem and other religious sites during the Caliphate of Omar (634-44). (A Caliph is a kind of religious and political leader in an Islamic state.) Many Crusades. There were many different crusades. The most important and biggest Crusades happened from the 11th century to the 13th century. There were 9 big Crusades in this time. They are numbered 1 through 9. There were also many smaller Crusades. Some crusades were even within Europe (for example, in Spain and France). The smaller Crusades continued to the 16th century, until the Renaissance and Reformation. The word "Crusade" is related to the word "Cross", and means a Christian holy war. There is also the Arabic word "Jihad", referring to a holy war fought by Muslims. All sides (Christians, Muslims, and Jews) believed very much in their religions. They also had political reasons for fighting. The strong belief made people less able to understand other people during times when there was no peace. The Crusades and Jihads caused very much loss of life and property for all sides. Much of the conflict between religions today is still partly from the Crusades and Jihads. The Crusades led to the bloodshed of many innocent people and it affected peoples views forever (Dr. Omar Hajjar of Columbia). First Crusade. When Alexius I called for help to defend his empire against theSeljuk Turks, in 1095 Pope Urban II asked all Christians to join a war against the Turks. The Pope told the Christians that fighting the war would repay God for their sins. The Christian soldiers were called "crusaders". The armies marched to Jerusalem, attacking several cities on their way. In 1099 they won the battle for Jerusalem, and killed many. As a result of the First Crusade, several small countries were created. One was named the Kingdom of Jerusalem. A main cause of the crusade was the desperate need for land and retaking Jerusalem gave them both their Holy Land and land to live on. Second Crusade. After some years of peace, a man named St Bernard of Clairvaux called for a new crusade when the town of Edessa was attacked by the Turks. French and German armies marched to Asia in 1147, but failed to win. Third Crusade. In 1187, Saladin recaptured Jerusalem. Pope Gregory VIII started a new crusade, led by several of Europe's kings: Philip II of France, Richard I of England and Frederick I, Holy Roman Emperor. Frederick drowned in Cilicia in 1190. Richard left in 1192 after agreeing to stop the fighting with Saladin. On Richard's way home, his ship was wrecked, leading him to Austria. In Austria his enemy Duke Leopold captured him, and Richard was held. Fourth Crusade. The Fourth Crusade was started by Pope Innocent III in 1202, with the idea to attack the Holy Land through Egypt. The Venetians changed this crusade, and went to the Christian city of Constantinople, where they attempted to place a Byzantine exile on the throne. After a series of misunderstandings and outbreaks of violence, the city was sacked in 1204. Albigensian Crusade. The Albigensian Crusade was started in 1209 to eliminate the Cathars of southern France. Established view. The Children's Crusade is a crusade of 1212. The story is that an outburst of the old popular enthusiasm led a gathering of children in France and Germany. A boy, from either France or Germany said that Jesus had visited him, and told him to peacefully convert Muslims to Christianity. Following this vision, many children formed bands, and marched to Italy. There, they were put onto ships which either capsized in a storm, or which went to Morocco, where the children were sold into slavery. There are several versions of the story. This had led some people to believe that this did not really happen. More recent research. It looks like there were really two groups of people who moved, in 1212. Both movements were very similar. For this reason, those who wrote the chronicles put them together, as a single movement. In the first movement, Nicholas, a shepherd from Germany, led a group across the Alps and into Italy in the early spring of 1212. About 7,000 arrived in Genoa in late August. However, their plans didn't bear fruit when the waters failed to part as promised and the band broke up. Some left for home, others may have gone to Rome, while still others may have travelled down the Rhône to Marseille where they were probably sold into slavery. Few returned home and none reached the Holy Land. The second movement was led by a "shepherd boy" named Stephen de Cloyes near the village of Châteaudun. In June of that year, the boy said that he had a letter for the king of France from Jesus. He could gather a crowd of over 30,000 and went to Saint-Denis. There he was seen to work miracles. On the orders of Philip II, on the advice of the University of Paris, the crowd was sent home, and most of them went. None of the contemporary sources mentions plans of the crowd to go to Jerusalem. Later chroniclers elaborated on these events. Recent research suggests those taking part were not children, at least not the very young. In the early 1200s, bands of wandering poor started cropping up throughout Europe. These were people displaced by economic changes at the time which forced many poor peasants in northern France and Germany to sell their land. These bands were referred to as "pueri" (Latin for "boys") in a condescending manner, in much the same way that people from rural areas in the United States are called "country boys." In 1212, a young French "puer" named Stephen and a German "puer" named Nicholas separately began claiming that they had each had similar visions of Jesus. This resulted in these bands of roving poor being united into a religious protest movement which transformed this forced wandering into a religious journey. The "pueri" marched, following the Cross. They associated themselves with Jesus's biblical journey. This, however, was not a prelude to a holy war. At that time, chronicles were mostly kept by the Catholic church. They were written in Latin. Thirty years later, chroniclers read the accounts of these processions and translated "pueri" as "children" without understanding the usage. So, the Children's Crusade was born. The resulting story illustrates how ingrained the concept of Crusading was in the people of that time— the chroniclers assumed that the pueri must have been Crusaders. In their innocence, they returned to the foundations of crusading characteristic of Peter the Hermit, and met the same sort of tragic fate. According to Matthew Paris, one of the leaders of the Children's Crusade became "Le Maître de Hongrie," the leader of the Shepherds' Crusade in 1251. Fifth Crusade. The Church tried another crusade to attack the Holy Land. A crusading force from Hungary, Austria, and Bavaria captured Damietta, a city in Egypt, in 1219. The crusaders had to surrender, due to a losing the battle for Cairo. Sixth Crusade. In 1228, Emperor Frederick II set sail from Brindisi for Syria. He did this after the Pope excommunicated him. By talking to the Turks he had success, and Jerusalem, Nazareth, and Bethlehem was given to the Crusaders for ten years without fighting. This was the first major crusade not initiated by the Papacy, a trend that was to continue for the rest of the century. Seventh Crusade. The Templars argued with Egypt in 1243. In 1244, Egypt attacked Jerusalem. Louis IX of France started a crusade against Egypt from 1248 to 1254. It was a failure, and Louis spent much of the crusade living in Acre. In the midst of this crusade was the first Shepherds' Crusade in 1251. Eighth Crusade. The Eighth Crusade was organized by Louis IX in 1270, to help the Crusader states in Syria. However, the crusade was diverted to Tunis, where Louis spent only two months before dying. Ninth Crusade. Before he was king, Edward I of England started a crusade in 1271. He retired the following year after a truce. The Crusader states lost everything after this.  
Renegades	"Renegades" is the 4th album by the music group Rage Against the Machine. It was released in 2000.  
NEWI Cefn Druids F.C.	NEWI Cefn Druids Football Club (they used to be called Flexsys Cefn Druids) are a Welsh football (soccer) team. They play in the Welsh League  
Aberystwyth Town F.C.	Aberystwyth Town Football Club are a Welsh football (soccer) team. The club was started in 1884. They play at the Park Avenue stadium in Aberystwyth. They play in the Welsh League. They came third in the Welsh league in 1992 but have only had success at a regional level.  
German language	The German language (German: "Deutsch" or "(die) deutsche Sprache") is a West Germanic language in the Indo-European language family. It is spoken in Germany, Austria, Switzerland, Liechtenstein and Luxembourg. There are minorities of German speakers in Belgium and in the Netherlands, as well as in France and Northern Italy. There are minority (small groups) speakers in many countries, including the United States and Canada, where many migrants emigrated from Germany. In East Europe, too, in Bulgaria, Romania, Russia etc German is a part of the West Germanic language family (a group of languages that are similar) and is much like English and Dutch. A lot of the vocabulary in German is related to English, although English has a much larger vocabulary, but the grammar is more complicated. German has a system of cases, and when helping verbs are used, the main part of the verb must be moved to the end of the sentence. For example, "Someone has stolen my car" is "Jemand hat mein Auto gestohlen" (Someone has my car stolen) or, "Someone called me last night" is "Jemand hat mich letzte Nacht angerufen."  
Mississippi River	The Mississippi River is the longest river in the United States. It is one of the longest rivers in the world. The name "Mississippi" comes from a Native American name that means "big river." The source of the Mississippi is in the state of Minnesota, near the border with Canada. The Mississippi flows south through the middle of the United States. It flows past the states of Wisconsin, Iowa, Illinois, Missouri, Kentucky, Tennessee, Arkansas, and Mississippi. The mouth of the Mississippi is in the state of Louisiana, south of the city of New Orleans. The Mississippi flows into the Gulf of Mexico. The Mississippi has many large tributaries, or rivers that flow into it. The watershed of the Mississippi covers much of the United States. This means that the Mississippi and its tributaries drain much of the United States. The Mississippi has been extremely important for transportation in the history of the United States. When the United States first became a nation, the Mississippi River was the western boundary of the United States. At the end of the Mississippi there is a zone in the Gulf of Mexico where very few animals can survive comfortably because of the fertilizer and other chemicals that run off of farms into the river and her tributaries, which then dump them into the gulf.  
Tributary	A tributary of a river is another river that flows into it. If one river flows into a second river, then the first river is a tributary of the second river. For example, in the United States the Missouri River flows into the Mississippi River. That means the Missouri River is a tributary of the Mississippi River. A river and all its tributaries form the catchment of that river. A watershed separates the catchments of separate rivers.  
Missouri River	The Missouri River is a river in the western United States. It is a tributary of the Mississippi River. It is longer than the Mississippi River. It is, in fact, the longest river in North America. For most of its course, the Missouri flows across the Great Plains, one of the driest parts of North America. The source of the Missouri River is in the Rocky Mountains, in the state of Montana. The Missouri flows eastward, across Montana, south of the border with Canada. It enters the state of North Dakota and then it turns south. It flows through South Dakota. Then it flows past Iowa, Nebraska, Missouri, and Kansas. Near the city of Kansas City, Missouri, the Missouri turns eastward into the state of Missouri. It flows eastward across the state of Missouri. It joins the Mississippi just north of the city of Saint Louis, Missouri. The Missouri was very important for the Native Americans who lived on the Great Plains. It was also very important in the history of the United States. The Missouri was used as the route of the Lewis and Clark Expedition in 1804-1806. In the 19th century, the Missouri was very important for transportation. The nickname of the Missouri is "Big Muddy", because it contains a lot of silt.  
Meaning of life	Many religions, ways of thinking, and creative artists have tried to figure out the Meaning of Life. Some people say that we will never know what the meaning of life is. Many religions claim to offer some answers. There are also ways of thinking called philosophies which claim to offer some answers. There are also artists who paint pictures to explain the meaning of life. As well, there are musicians who write and play music and songs, and writers who write novels and stories to explain the meaning of life. Many people from different religions or cultures have different opinions on what the meaning of life is. We may never find out who is right. Some people, called existentialists believe there is no meaning of life, except the meaning that we make up for ourselves.  
Watershed	Watershed is a geographic term about rivers. It is an area of land. All water that falls on the watershed flows into one river. It can flow directly into the river or go through tribes (smaller rivers that flow into the bigger river) first. The watershed of a river can be very large. For example, the watershed of the Mississippi River covers more than half of the United States. That means that over half of the United States is drained by the Mississippi and its tributaries.  
Great Plains	The Great Plains is a series of big plains in Canada and the United States.  
Myth	A myth is a story which may or may not be true. Myths are generally very old. This means there are no records or other proof that they happened. We know about them from older people telling them to younger people. Some myths may have started as 'true' stories but as people told and re-told them, they may have changed some parts, so they are less 'true'. They may have changed them by mistake, or to make them more interesting. All cultures have myths. Stories about the Greek and Roman gods and goddesses are myths. Many people believe in mythological animals and gods. These animals or gods may have control or has power over a part of human or natural life. For example, the Greek god named Zeus had powers over lightning and storms. Whenever Zeus wanted to, he could make a storm, and that he made storms to show his anger. Another example is that of the Egyptian god, Atum, who was said to be the creator of everything in the world. In Hindu mythology, the cause of thunderstorms was said to be the wrath of Indra, the chief of all gods. His most powerful weapon was the "Vajra" 1, or thunderbolt. It was said that no one could survive after an attack from this weapon. Mythology. All cultures have developed their own mythology over time. Mythology includes the legends of their history, their religions, their stores of how the world was created, and their heroes. These stories have great symbolic power, and this may be a major reason why they survive as long as they do, sometimes for thousands of years. A collection of myths is called a mythos, e.g. 'the Roman mythos.' A collection of those is called a mythoi, e.g. 'the Greek and Roman mythoi.' One important type of myth is the creation myth, which describes how that culture believes the universe, or 'world' was created. Scientists generally believe that the universe was created in an event called "The Big Bang", a natural event. But now, there is talk within the scientific community about what existed before the Big Bang. To those are comfortable with the Big Bang as the ultimate, or only solution to the question of the beginning of the universe, the Big Bang may have itself become a myth. Not so long ago the Milky Way was believed to be the only galaxy; scientists then had trouble accepting other competing theories, or ideas. Myths are often final answers with great authority, and strong emotional ties. Another important, and myth common to many cultures is the Trickster myth. A 'trickster' is a god, or hero, and very often an animal who plays tricks or jokes on humans in order to bring them wisdom or help them question their beliefs. Examples of tricksters include the fox in Europe, the crow and the coyote for North American natives, the spider "Anansi" in Jamaica. There are many more. Joseph Campbell was considered by some people to be a leading Western authority on myth and the history of spirituality. Historians' views on myths. Although myths are often considered to be stories of events that have not happened, many historians consider myths to be accounts of actual events that have become connected with strong symbolic meaning, or that have been changed, or shifted in time or place, or even reversed. One way of thinking about this process is to imagine 'myths' as lying at the far end of an imaginary line or 'continuum'. At one end of the line is 'dispassionate account', and 'legendary occurrence' or'mythical status' is near the other end. As an event progresses toward the 'mythical' end of this line or continuum, the way people think, feel and say about the event changes. It may gain greater historical significance while the 'facts' become less important. By the time one arrives at the mythical end of the line, the story has "taken on a life of its own" and the facts of the original event have become almost irrelevant, or unimportant. This process occurs in part because the events described become detached from their original context or situation and new context is substituted, often through analogy with current or recent events. Some Greek myths originated in Classical times to provide explanations for inexplicable features of local cult practices, to account for the local epithet of one of the Olympian gods, to interpret depictions of half-remembered figures, events, or account for the deities' attributes or entheogens, even to make sense of ancient icons, much as myths are invented to "explain" heraldic charges, the origins of which has become arcane with the passing of time. Conversely, descriptions of recent events are re-emphasised to make them seem to be analogous with the commonly known story. This technique has been used by Right-wing conservatives in America with text from the Bible (e.g. Revelation), and was used in the Russian Communist era in propaganda about political situations with misleading references to class struggles. Even today the fitness of the Emperor of Japan is based partly on his distant descent from the Goddess of the Sun. Other uses. Myths are not the same as fables, folktales, fairy tales, anecdotes, or simple fiction, but sloppy usage has blurred the distinctions in many people's minds. The term "myth" is sometimes used pejoratively in reference to common beliefs of a culture or for the beliefs of a religion to imply that the story is both fanciful and fictional. Myth is often used to refer to a commonly held but erroneous belief. Compare urban myth, the secular mythology of modern culture. The terms urban myth and urban legend are sometimes used to describe something that is false, but, strictly speaking, those can be either true or false as well.  
Minnesota River	The Minnesota River is a river in the United States. It is in the northern United States, in the state of Minnesota. It is a tributary of the Mississippi River. It is about 534 km long. The source of the river is a lake in western Minnesota. The lake is called Big Stone Lake. The lake is on the border between the state of Minnesota and the state of South Dakota. From its source, the Minnesota flows southeast. At Mankato, it turns northeast. It joins the Mississippi just south of the cities of Saint Paul and Minneapolis. The Minnesota River was formed after the last ice age in North America.  
Mythology	Mythology is the collection of myths for a culture.  
Wisconsin River	The Wisconsin River is a river in the United States. It is a tributary of the Mississippi River. It is located in the state of Wisconsin. It is approximately 692 km long. The source of the Wisconsin is in the forests of northern Wisconsin. The source is a small lake on the border between Wisconsin and Michigan. The river flows south across Wisconsin. It flows through a plain made by a glacier during the last ice age. It passes the cities of Wausau and Stevens Point. In southern Wisconsin, the river meets a moraine. The moraine was made during the last ice age. The river enters a beautiful gorge, called the Wisconsin Dells. North of the city of Madison, the river turns to the west. It flows west through the hills of southwest Wisconsin. It joins the Mississippi 15 km south of the city of Prairie du Chien. The river is an important source of hydroelectric power.  
Alaska	The State of Alaska is one of the states of the United States, although it is connected to Canada. It was purchased from Imperial Russia in 1867 for $7.2 million. Geography. The capital city is Juneau, but the biggest city is Anchorage. Alaska is the biggest state in the United States, but has the least people. It is not connected to any other states by American land, but it is connected to Canada. Alaska has many glaciers, some of which are passed by or landed on by cruises or National Parks. Some are coastal, some landlocked. It is an extremely popular tourist destination, as there is a very rich culture along with beautiful scenery. There are some important industries in Alaska, like fishing, mining, and forestry. There were many gold rushes in Alaska.  
BBC	The BBC or the British Broadcasting Corporation is an organisation in the UK. It broadcasts in the United Kingdom and other countries on television, radio and the Internet. The BBC also sells its programs to other broadcasting companies in the world. The organisation is run by a group of twelve governors who have been given the job by the Queen, on the advice of government ministers. The governors appoint a Board of Management to take care of running the business of the BBC. The head of the Board of Management is called the Director General. BBC Charter. The BBC is established under a Royal Charter, which allows the BBC to broadcast. In 2006, the British Government looked at the charter to see if it needed changing. Another agreement, which goes with the Charter, recognizes that the BBC should be independent from any other organization. It also says what the BBC should do for the people in Britain (the public). Finance. Every household in the UK that owns a television must pay for a TV Licence. Because the BBC gets its money from TV licences, it does not take money from companies or shareholders, so it does not have to do what they want. Also, it is not allowed to broadcast commercials. The BBC makes extra money in several ways. One way is by selling its programs to other broadcasting companies. Another way is by selling audio tapes and CDs of its best radio programs, and videos and DVDs of its best television programs. Still another way is by selling books based on programs, and magazines about science and natural history. BBC television guide. The BBC also publishes a weekly magazine called "Radio Times". This used to print listings of all the week's BBC radio and television programs in the United Kingdom, but in the 1990s it began to print listings of programs broadcast by other companies in the United Kingdom as well. It also prints stories about programs and the people who make them and the people who appear in them. "Radio Times" is one of the best selling magazines in the United Kingdom. The BBC has to publish a report every year, which tells people what it has done and how much money it has made and spent. If someone has a complaint about something broadcast by the BBC, they can complain to the BBC, the BBC Trust, or directly to Ofcom, the government's regulator of broadcasting. Locations. The headquarters of the BBC is Broadcasting House in Portland Place, London. The BBC also has other offices such as the BBC Television Centre in White City, London, as well in other cities like Cardiff, Belfast, Glasgow, Birmingham, Manchester, Bristol, Southampton and Newcastle upon Tyne. Rather than hire local reporters everywhere, the BBC's journalists work in many countries across the world. This means BBC workers are sometimes in danger, especially in war zones. Most recently Alan Johnston was kidnapped and held hostage for many months in Gaza before being safety released. BBC iPlayer. Between October 2005 and 28 February 2006 the BBC offered a service called the BBC iPlayer on their website - bbc.co.uk. It allowed people to catch up on the last seven days of TV and radio on the BBC. Users could either watch (stream) it or download the content on their computers. The downloading option was only for Microsoft Windows computers. The iPlayer service was released to the public on 25 December 2007. The slogan for BBC iPlayer is: 'Making the Unmissable, Unmissable.'  
Illinois River	The Illinois River is a river in the United States. It is in the state of Illinois. It is an important tributary of the Mississippi River. The length of the river is about 439 km. The source of the river is in northeastern Illinois, near the city of Joliet. It flows east across Illinois, then southeast. It passes the city of Peoria, the largest city on the river. It flows into southwestern Illinois. It joins the Mississippi River 40 km north of Saint Louis, Missouri. The Illinois river also goes through the northern most edge of Oklahoma. The river was used for transportation by the Native Americans. It was also used by early French trappers. It was an important route between the Mississippi River and the Great Lakes. In the 19th century, a canal was built that connected the river to Lake Michigan. Large ships now use this canal to go from the Great Lakes to the Mississippi River. The canal goes through the city of Chicago. It is one of the reasons that Chicago became a big city.  
Milk	Milk is a white liquid produced by mammals, for example cows, dogs, and humans. It is made in the mammary glands (breasts, udders, or teats) of female mammals. Because newborn babies have no teeth, they must be fed milk before they can eat solid food. Milk contains many nutrients to help babies grow and be healthy. Nutrients that milk contains. Milk contains a lot of calcium, which is one of many minerals needed for strong bones and healthy nerves. Milk is very high in Calcium, but relatively low in Magnesium (about 10% of Calcium content). Magnesium is required in higher amounts for proper absorption. Milk also contains fat, protein, and sugar which animals can digest to gain energy. The amounts of things contained in milk is different in different animals. Human milk is thin and has a lot of lactose. Cow milk has less sugar and more fat and protein than human milk. Cow milk has about 3.5% milkfat, 8.5% milk solids and 88% water. The milk of some mammals is collected for humans to drink. It usually comes from cows, but also sometimes goats, yaks and sheep. Some people like to add other flavors to milk before they drink it. Flavored milk is popular with children. Chocolate flavor and sugar is added to milk to make "chocolate milk". Chocolate milk is different from milk chocolate -- a type of candy chocolate that contains some milk. Not everyone agrees that milk is healthy for humans to drink. Some research shows that the proteins in milk stop this calcium being useful in adults. One of the largest ever studies, funded by the dairy industry followed the diet of thousands of nurses over 10 years. Those with the highest milk consumption had the highest rates of hip fracture. Cow's milk makes the blood more acidic and therefore the body pulls calcium from the bones to neutralize the acidity in a process called Homeostasis. Some people think milk is good for children. It has been proven in the courts in the US that Cow's milk contains BGH (Bovine Growth Hormones) which are detrimental to human health. In some countries, some people are worried that milk contains chemicals which are fed to cows. These chemicals may be harmful to people. Storing milk. If milk is not kept cool in a refrigerator, it will spoil and become sour after some time. The warmer the milk becomes, the faster it becomes sour. Fermentation makes this happen. Lactic acid bacteria changes the milk sugar into lactic acid. Fermentation is used when making dairy products. Milk is often pasteurised before humans drink it, or is made into dairy products like cream, butter, yoghurt, ice cream, gelato, or cheese. Pasteurised cows' milk will turn sour if it is not kept in a refrigerator. Milk should be stored between 1° and 4° Celsius. If milk is treated with ultra-high temperatures (UHT), it will last longer before spoiling. This means it does not have to be put in the refrigerator until it is opened. Lactose. Milk contains a chemical called lactose. Babies make an enzyme called lactase inside their bodies. Adults make less lactase. If they do not have enough, they may not be able to digest lactose anymore. This problem is called lactose intolerance and it affects many adults. There are many medicines that help adults digest lactose. Many lactose-intolerant people drink soy milk instead of animal milk, because it does not contain lactose. Soy milk is similar to animal milk, but it is made from soybeans. Coconut milk. Coconut milk looks similar to real milk, but it does not have as many nutrients. It is made by removing the white "meat" from a coconut, pressing or squeezing the "meat", then adding water. It is sometimes used in cooking, for example, in Thai curry. Coconut cream is a thicker version of coconut milk which contains added sugar.  
Weather	Weather tells us what is happening in the sky above us. Weather includes wind, lightning, storms, hurricanes, tornados, rain, hail, and snow. Energy from the sun affects the weather. Climate tells us what kinds of weather usually happens in an area at different times of the year. Changes in weather can affect our mood. We wear different clothes and take part in different activities under different weather conditions. We choose different foods in different seasons. Weather stations around the world measure different parts of weather. Ways to measure are wind speed, wind direction, temperature, barometric pressure, and humidity. People try to use these measurements to determine what the weather will be like in the future. These people are called "meteorologists".  
British Columbia	British Columbia (B.C. for short) is located on the west coast of Canada. It is the third largest Canadian province with 944,735 square kilometers or 364,764 square miles. In 2001, the population was 3,907,738. In 2005, it is believed to be about 4,220,000. The capital of British Columbia is Victoria. The largest city is Vancouver. It has 2 million people in it. Other large cities include Kelowna, Abbotsford, Kamloops, Nanaimo, and Prince George. The largest industries are: forestry, tourism, mining, and fisheries. The province joined Canada in 1871. There were some disagreements with the United States about where to make the borders. The southern border is on the 49th parallel, as agreed to in the Oregon Treaty of 1846. The San Juan Islands and Alaska Panhandle also created conflicts, but they were resolved. The premier of B.C. is Gordon Campbell. He leads the B.C. Liberal Party. B.C. is next to the Pacific Ocean, as well as the province of Alberta, the Yukon Territory and the Northwest Territories; and the American states of Washington, Idaho, and Montana. The Rocky Mountains are in eastern B.C. The Okanogan is a fruit-farming area in the south-central part of the province known as the "interior." There are many First Nations (native) groups in British Columbia. The Nisga'a agreement in the year 2000 was B.C.'s first modern land-claims treaty. The Winter Olympics will be held in Vancouver in 2010. Skiing will be held at Whistler, which is one of the best-known places for skiing in North America.  
20th century	The 20th century is the century from the year 1901 to 2000. Many events have happened during this time including two world wars and advances such as industrialization. The human population of Earth has also increased more during this century than any previous one. Two of the world wars happened at this time. Decades and years. Note: years before or after the twentieth century are in "italics".  
Brussels	Brussels (,) is the capital city of Belgium and the European Union. In 2007 its population, the people living in it, was 145,917. But the area around it, known as the Brussels-Capital Region, had 1,031,215 people (which makes it the largest city area in Belgium). The people in Brussels used to only speak Flemish (a type of Dutch) but more and more people speaking French moved there and now French is spoken more than Dutch. But there are lots of other languages spoken as well since the European Union based its offices in the city. "Brussels sprouts" are named after the city and it is also where many popular comics in Europe originated (Tintin, The Smurfs, Snorks, Lucky Luke). It is also well known for a style of building know as "Art Nouveau", its waffles and its chocolates. The city is located at 50° 50 North, 04° 21 East.  
Thuringia	Thuringia (German: Thüringen) is a Bundesland of Germany. It lies in central Germany and has an area of. This means Saxony Anhalt is the sixth smallest state in Germany by area. It has 2.45 million inhabitants, so it is the fifth smallest state in Germany by population. The capital is Erfurt. Geography. Thuringia borders on the German states of Lower Saxony, Saxony-Anhalt, Saxony, Bavaria and Hesse. The most conspicuous geographical feature of Thuringia is the Thuringia Forest (Thüringer Wald). In the northwest Thuringia includes a small part of the Harz mountains. The Saale river runs through Jena. The biggest mountain in Thuringia is with 982m the Großer Beerberg in the Thuringia Forest.  
Saxony	The Free State of Saxony (), is one of 16 states of Germany. It is located in south-east, north of Czech Republic. The biggest city is Leipzig. The capital is called Dresden.  
Internet Explorer	Internet Explorer is a web browser created by Spyglass Inc. In 1996, Microsoft bought Internet Explorer, which was called Mosaic at the time, from Spyglass Inc and gave them some of the money they made from it. The browser has been developed by Microsoft ever since. Internet Explorer has been included in every kind of the Microsoft Windows operating system since Windows 98, in 1999. Microsoft used to make Internet Explorer for the UNIX, Solaris, and Macintosh operating systems. Only the Microsoft Windows operating system is supported now. Internet Explorer cannot be removed without causing the user using Windows to lose important functions of the system. Criticism. Many people who use other browsers do not like Internet Explorer. They say it is not secure and has lots of problems in it, for example, other people may be able to look at what you are looking at (Spyware). Also sometimes a webpage may only support viewing it in Internet Explorer, this has made people using other operating systems unhappy with Microsoft because Internet Explorer can not run on Linux or Apple Macintosh computers. Some people have also thought that Internet Explorer being included with Windows lead to the decrease in popularity of Netscape Navigator a competing product to Internet Explorer.  
Ulster	Ulster is one of the four provinces which make up Ireland. The others are Leinster, Munster and Connacht. There are nine counties in Ulster. Three are in the Republic of Ireland. The other six make up all of Northern Ireland. The name "Ulster" is also sometimes used to mean "Northern Ireland", even though Northern Ireland is only part of Ulster.  
List of mathematicians	This is a list of famous mathematicians.  
Mancala	Mancala is a group of games played in Africa, the Middle East, and central Asia. People play the games by moving seeds on a board with pits carved in it.  
Coden, Alabama	Coden is a small fishing village near Bayou la Batre, Alabama, USA. It is about 20 miles southwest of Mobile, near the Alabama/Mississippi border. The name of the town comes from "Coq d'Inde", which is French for "Turkey". Around 1900, the area was known as a resort, which is a place people go to on their vacations. The Rolston Hotel brought visitors from all over the region. When it was destroyed by a hurricane, the community fell on hard times. The Ralston Hotel property now belongs to the City Of Bayou La Batre and is a park that is attracting people from other areas who want cool ocean breezes and peace that originally brought visitors. It is nice because it has the gentle sound of the water of Portersville Bay, fishing, and relaxation. Fresh seafood can be found on Shell Belt Road from fishing boats returning to Bayou Coden. Coden is on the southern shore of the mainland, across the Mississippi Sound from Dauphin Island and is one stop along Alabama's Coastal Birding Trail.  
Platypus	The platypus ("Ornithorhynchus anatinus") is a small mammal of the order "Monotremata". It lives in eastern Australia. It spends some time in water, and some time on land. There are only four types of mammals which lay eggs. One is the platypus. The other three egg-laying mammals are kinds of echidnas. A mammal that lays eggs is called a monotreme. The scientific name for a platypus comes from 2 Greek words: "ornithorhynchus" which means "bird nose" and "Anatinus" which means "duck". First, scientists gave the name "platypus" (flat foot) to its group. But this name was already used for the ambrosia beetle, a beetle which lives in wood. What sort of animal is it? The platypus looks similar to a beaver with a brown, furry body and wide, flat tail. Unlike a beaver, it has webbed feet (joined toes), which are good for swimming. Its nose is large and rubbery. The platypus is sometimes "duck billed platypus" because of this nose. It is similar to a duck's bill (mouth). Platypuses can be big or small. The larger platypus live in Tasmania while the smaller ones live in Queensland. Adults can be less than or up to. Its body can be from to long. Its tail can be from to long. Males are about one-third (1/3) larger than females. The male platypus has sharp spines on his legs called "ankle spurs" which contain a mild poison. It will not kill humans, but the poison has been known to kill small animals, such as dogs, and cause pain lasting as long as 4 months. The amount of poison increases during the breeding season, but scientists are not sure why this happens. It is probable that the poison increases, to protect the platypus's wife, its offspring, and itself. How platypus live. The platypus sleeps during the day. It moves mostly at night. It is a very good swimmer and spends much of its time in the water. It keeps its eyes shut when swimming, using only its other senses (hearing, feeling etc). The toes on its feet are joined. When it swims, it pushes itself along by moving the front two feet. The tail and back feet help it to turn left or right, but does not make it faster. The platypus eats other animals. It eats worms; insect larvae, which are wormlike insect babies; freshwater shrimp; and yabbies, which are a kind of freshwater crayfish. It digs these animals out of the bottom of the river with its nose, or catches them while swimming. Its nose can sense many things that other animal noses cannot. The platypus can sense electricity from other animals. No other mammal can do this. The platypus can hunt without using its eyes. When on land, the platypus lives in a short, straight, oval holes, like a rabbit burrows. These holes are between and long. It makes these holes in the riverbank a little above the water. It likes them hidden under roots. When a female platypus is pregnant (ready to have babies), the female makes much larger holes, up to long. She blocks the tunnel with earth at several places. At the end of the tunnel, she builds a nest out of reeds (river grass) for her eggs. The platypus lays eggs in its nest. When the babies come out of the eggs after about 10 days, they hold on to the mother. The mother makes milk for the new babies. The platypus does not have nipples, but milk comes through small openings in the skin. The young platypus drinks the milk from the mother's skin while she lies on her back. At 6 weeks the babies have fur and are able to leave the burrow for short trips. After 4 months they no longer need their mother's milk. Where platypus live. The platypus lives in small streams and rivers over a large area of eastern Australia. The map above shows this with dark purple. It has been seen in alpine lakes in Tasmania in the south, and north in Queensland as far as the Cape York Peninsula in tropical rain forest rivers. In the past, platypuses lived in South Australia but they no longer live there. There are platypus on Kangaroo Island, but these were brought to the island in an attempt to save animals people thought might become extinct. There are very few if any platypuses left in most the Murray-Darling Basin. The water there is no good because people used it to grow plants, and cleared the trees from the land. It is strange that the platypus does not live in some healthy rivers. It does live in some less healthy coastal rivers, for example the Maribyrnong River in Victoria. Platypus are difficult to see in the wild. They dislike areas with people, spend most of their time underground or under water, and sleep during the day. At Eungella National Park in Queensland, there are spots on the river with viewing areas where wild platypus can usually be seen each evening. The past and the future. Europeans saw the first platypus in the 18th century. They sent the skin of a dead platypus to Britain, so scientists could study it. At first, the scientists thought the skin was a joke, because they thought no animal could look so strange. They thought an Asian had made it from pieces of different animals. National Geographic magazine had a story on the platypus in 1939. Many people all over the world had never heard of the platypus. The story told how hard it is to raise platypus babies in zoos. (Raising is helping little babies to grow.) Even today, humans have raised only few platypuses. David Fleay at the Healesville Sanctuary in Victoria had the first successful zoo raised platypus in 1946. He nearly did it again in 1972 at the David Fleay Wildlife Park at Burleigh Heads, Queensland, but it died at 50 days. Healesville raised another in 1998 and again in 2000. Taronga Zoo in Sydney bred twins in 2003, and had another birth in 2006. The platypus will probably not die out completely in the near future. Ecologists say that it is "secure but faces future threat" (safe now but not in the future) or "common but vulnerable" (there are a lot now but they are not safe). They say this because people can make the water unsafe for the platypus. Also, platypus is the name for a music project featuring John Myung, from Dream Theater, Derek Sherinian, former Dream Theater member, Ty Tabor, from King's X, and Rod Morgenstein. Was also a pet in the present day tv show Phinias and Ferb on Disney channel.  
Kenya	Kenya is a country in East Africa. It has the Indian Ocean to its east. It borders Somalia, Ethiopia, Sudan, Uganda, and Tanzania. The capital city of Kenya is Nairobi. The first humans may have lived near the lakes of Kenya along the Great Rift Valley, which cuts Kenya from north to south. Kenya's coast is tropical and gets very hot. Inland, it is drier. The highest mountain in Kenya is Mt. Kenya (5,199 m). Many different languages are spoken in Kenya. English is the official language and many people speak Kiswahili. Kiswahili is the National Language. All School going Kenyans are required to learn English. English is the language of instruction in the schools and institutions of higher learning. Kenya was a British colony, but became independent on December 12, 1963. For many years, a single party, the Kenya African National Union (KANU), ruled Kenya. Kenya has been a democratic country but from 1968 to 1992 it was a single party democracy. General elections were held every 5 years however all candidates for election to office had to belong to the ruling party KANU. Mwai Kibaki is currently the president of Kenya and is the first President of Kenya to belong to a party other than KANU. Since he became President he has achieved a lot and Kenya has seen economic growth spurts of up 6%. He however has come under heavy criticism as some feel the reforms that were needed are slow to come. Many Kenyans living in Diaspora have began to return to Kenya as the promise of the future has created a plenty of high paying jobs that are appealing to foreign educated Kenyans. Many people visit Kenya to see the animals such as elephants, zebras, and lions. They also come for the beautiful beaches in the coastal towns of the shore of the Indian Ocean. Tourism is a great foreign exchange earner for Kenya. Education. All Kenyans of school going age are required to attend Primary School which is provided free by the government. The Kenyan school system consist of 8 years of Primary School, Standard 1 through 8, 4 years of High School (Form 1 to 4) and 4 years of University. At the end of Primary school, all students sit for a standardized exam called Kenya Certificate of Primary Education (KCPE). The grades attained in this exam determine which High School the student will attend. In Form 4 (this is the last year in High School), students sit for another exam called Kenya Certificate of Secondary Education (KCPE). The highest achieving students are granted admission into the 5 National Universities (Nairobi, Jomo Kenyatta University College of Agriculture and Technology, Kenyatta University, Egerton University and Moi University).  
Swahili language	Swahili language is a language widely spoken in East Africa. In Swahili language is named is Kiswahili. It is a Bantu language. Swahili language is spoken in a wide area from southern Somalia to northern Mozambique and the whole of Kenya. There are about five million first-language speakers and fifty million second-language speakers. Swahili has become a language with which people can communicate for East Africa and surrounding areas. Swahili language began to be spoken in Zanzibar, an island of Tanzania. Swahili languages is an official language in Tanzania and Kenya. It has been influenced by many other languages like Arabic language. Vocabulary. The below are examples of Swahili language.  
Car	A car (also called an automobile) is a machine used for travel (a vehicle). Structure. A car has an engine, put together with three or more wheels and a steering wheel. Some have more wheels: big trucks that carry heavy things can have 18 wheels, sometimes even more. Cars come in many shapes and sizes. They usually have a seat for the driver and at least one passenger. Some are also able to carry many passengers. For example, family station wagons carry from 8 to 9 people. Buses can carry even more, but are much bigger. In order for a car to move, it must have fuel, most often gasoline, which is sometimes called petrol. Other common fuels include diesel, natural gas, or electricity. Advantages. Cars are faster than walking and riding a bike, can carry more than one person, and are easy to use. They are used in many countries around the world. Another good thing is that if it's raining heavily it is better to use a car than a bike or walking because driving a car in these conditions can be less dangerous. Disadvantages. If two cars crash they can hurt the people inside or around them. Traffic Jams happen when there are too many cars trying to go the same way. They can create pollution if too many are used in a small area like a city. Many places with many people have public transportation - buses, trains, and subways - that can help many people get to different places very quickly. Carpooling is putting more people in one car to use less fuel and create less pollution.  
Long jump	The long jump is a sport in athletics (track and field), where a athletes compete by comparing lengths of jumps. where athletes try to jump as far as they can. The athlete runs as fast as they can down the run way to the jumping pit which is made of sand. when they are at the mark where they are told to jump, the athlete jumps as far as they can into the sand pit.  
Elizabeth II of the United Kingdom	Elizabeth II (Elizabeth Alexandra Mary; born 21 April 1926) is the Queen of sixteen independent countries and their territories. She is the queen each country separately, but she lives in the United Kingdom, her oldest "realm". Her family has reigned over parts of the United Kingdom for more than a thousand years. She became Queen when her father, King George VI, died on 6 February 1952. She has reigned for 56 years (in 2008) and is the oldest reigning monarch in British history. (The "longest" reigning is Queen Victoria: 63 years.) As well as the United Kingdom, Elizabeth II is Queen of Canada, Australia, New Zealand, Jamaica, Barbados, the Bahamas, Grenada, Papua New Guinea, the Solomon Islands, Tuvalu, Saint Lucia, Saint Vincent and the Grenadines, Antigua and Barbuda, Belize, and Saint Kitts and Nevis. She has a representative (someone to stand-in for her) in each of these countries. Her representative is known as the Governor-General. The 16 countries of which she is Queen are known as Commonwealth realms. Their total population is over 129 million. Elizabeth II holds many other positions. She is the Head of the Commonwealth of Nations, Supreme Governor of the Church of England, Duke of Normandy, Duke of Lancaster, Lord of Mann, and Paramount Chief of Fiji. She is also the Commander-in-Chief of the armed forces of many of her realms and Lord Admiral of the United Kingdom. Queen Elizabeth II probably has a huge amount of power, but she does not use it. She has a very good understanding of politics, but she does not tell the government what to do. In the United Kingdom, she is very interested in the running of the nation, and has regular meetings with her government ministers. Since 1947, the Queen has been married to Prince Philip, Duke of Edinburgh. Prince Philip was born a prince of Greece and Denmark. Prince Philip became a citizen of the United Kingdom, and used the name Philip Mountbatten. Prince Philip became the Duke of Edinburgh on the day he married, and became a "Prince of the United Kingdom" in 1957. The Queen and Prince Philip have four children and eight grandchildren (in 2008). Early life. Elizabeth was born at 17 Bruton Street, in Mayfair, London, on 21 April 1926. She was the oldest child of Prince Albert, Duke of York and Elizabeth, the Duchess of York. Her father was the second son of King George V and brother to the Prince of Wales. No one knew, at that time, that one day he would become King George VI. His wife, the Duchess of York, was the daughter of a Scottish lord. Her name was the Hon. Elizabeth Bowes-Lyon. She had grown up in one of Scotland's most famous castles, Glamis Castle. Princess Elizabeth was baptised in the Private Chapel in the grounds of Buckingham Palace (it was destroyed during World War II) by the Archbishop of York. She was named after her mother, while her two middle names are those of her father's grandmother, Queen Alexandra, and her grandmother, Queen Mary. As a child, her family called her "Lilibet". She was very fond of her grandfather, George V, and it is said that she helped him recover from a serious illness in 1929. Princess Elizabeth had one sister Princess Margaret, who was born in 1930. The two young princesses were educated at home. They had a governess whose name was Marion Crawford, but was often called "Crawfie". The princesses had a special history teacher from Eton College, and a teacher of modern languages. Both princesses learnt to speak French very well. Because the Princess would one day be the Head of the Church of England, she was taught religion by The Archbishop of Canterbury. The Queen has always been a devout member of the Church of England. As a granddaughter of the British sovereign (king), the princess was called "Her Royal Highness Princess Elizabeth of York". At the time of her birth, she was third in the line of succession to the throne. This meant that if the king died, then the next in line was her uncle the Prince of Wales and then her father, the Duke of York, and then Princess Elizabeth. But when she was born, there was no reason for people to believe that she would become queen. Everyone thought that one day, her uncle would get married and have children. But even though her uncle married, he and his wife never had children. Her grandfather, King George V, died in 1936. Her uncle became King Edward VIII, but only for a short time. He wanted to marry a woman who was divorced. Because (at that time) this was against the law for the king, he "abdicated" (gave up his throne). His brother, the Duke of York, became King George VI. Elizabeth then became the next in line, the "heir presumptive" to the throne. (The throne that a ruler sits on, and the crown that they wear are often talked about as symbols for their power.) It was at this time that her grandmother Queen Mary and her mother, who was now called Queen Elizabeth, realised that the Princess's education in history, religion and languages was very important. Queen Mary also gave the Princess lots of good advice on how to behave like a Queen. It was clear that, unless her parents produced a male child, one day Princess Elizabeth would be Queen, not as the wife to a king, but in her own right, like her great-great-grandmother Queen Victoria who had reigned for 67 years. When Elizabeth was thirteen years old, the Second World War broke out. Because London was being bombed, the Princesses Elizabeth and Margaret were "evacuated" (moved to safety) to Windsor Castle in Berkshire. It was suggested that they should be sent to Canada but their mother said: "The children won't go without me. I won't leave the King. And the King will never leave [England]." In 1940, Princess Elizabeth made her first radio broadcast during the BBC's Children's Hour. She spoke to other children who had been evacuated. When she was 13 years old, she first met her future husband, Prince Philip of Greece. She fell in love with him and began writing to him when he was in the Royal Navy. Military career. In 1945, Princess Elizabeth asked her father to let her work for the war effort. She joined the "Women's Auxiliary Territorial Service", as "No 230873 Second Subaltern Elizabeth Windsor". She trained as a driver, and drove a military truck. She enjoyed training with other young women, and decided to send her own children to school rather than have them educated at home, the way she and her sister were. The Princess Elizabeth was the first, and so far only, female member of the royal family to actually serve in the armed forces, although other royal women have been given honorary ranks. During the Victory celebrations in London, she and her sister, Princess Margaret, went out into the crowd after midnight to celebrate with everyone else. Marriage. Princess Elizabeth married Prince Philip, Duke of Edinburgh on 20 November 1947. The couple are distantly related to each other, through Christian IX of Denmark and Queen Victoria. Prince Philip was not rich, he was Greek Orthodox and his sister had married someone who was thought to be a Nazi, so there were some people who were not happy about the marriage. But most people throughout the Commonwealth were full of joy. Even though people were still very poor because of the war, the royal couple received 2,500 wedding presents from all around the world. Many people helped the Princess save up "coupons", so she could buy a beautiful wedding dress. The wedding was held in Westminster Abbey. Princess Margaret was one of the nine bridesmaids. After their wedding, the couple lived mainly at Clarence House in London. For a time, the Duke of Edinburgh was stationed in Malta as a serving Royal Navy officer, so they lived in Malta at a house of Lord Mountbatten of Burma. Although the Royal House is named Windsor, the princes and princess often use the name Mountbatten-Windsor. Succession. In 1951, the King's health became too bad to go to many public events. Princess Elizabeth began to make official visits for him. She visited Greece, Italy and Malta (where Philip was then stationed) during that year. In October, she made a tour of Canada and visited President Harry S Truman in Washington, D.C. In January 1952, Elizabeth and Philip set out for a tour of Australia and New Zealand. They had reached Kenya when a message arrived telling of the death of the King, on 6 February 1952, from lung cancer. Elizabeth and Philip were staying at "Sagana Lodge" in Kenya when she was told of her father's death and that now she had succeeded to the throne. It was Prince Philip who broke the news of her father's death to Elizabeth. They returned to the United Kingdom immediately by plane. Elizabeth was proclaimed Queen in Canada first, (an announcement was read to tell the people) on 6 February, 1952. The following day, on February 7 the proclamation was read at St. James's Palace in London. Elizabeth II's coronation (crowning) took place in Westminster Abbey, on 2 June 1953. Her coronation gown, designed by Norman Hartnell, was embroidered with the floral symbols of the countries of the Commonwealth: the Tudor rose of England, the thistle of Scotland, the leek of Wales, the shamrock of Ireland, the wattle of Australia, the maple leaf of Canada, the fern of New Zealand, the protea of South Africa, two lotus flowers for India and Ceylon, and wheat, cotton and jute for Pakistan. Life as Queen. After the Coronation, The Queen and Prince Philip moved into Buckingham Palace, in central London, the main official home of the monarch. But it is believed that, like Queen Victoria, she doesn't like living at the Palace much. She has always thought of Windsor Castle, as her real home. In 1953, the Queen and Prince Philip, set off on a six-month, around the world tour, in the "Royal Yacht, Britannia". Elizabeth became the first monarch to "circumnavigate" (sail around) the globe. She also became the first reigning monarch to visit Australia, New Zealand and Fiji. Since then, Elizabeth has made many trips. In October 1957, she made a "state visit" (an official visit) to the United States, and spoke to the United Nations General Assembly. She then toured Canada, and she became the first monarch to open the nation's Parliament. In February 1961, she visited Ankara in Turkey, and toured India, Iran, Pakistan and Nepal for the first time. Since then the Queen has made state visits to most Commonwealth countries, most European countries and to many countries outside Europe. In 1969, Elizabeth II sent one of 73 Apollo 11 Goodwill Messages to NASA for the historic first lunar landing. The message is etched onto a tiny silicon disc and still rests on the lunar surface today. She greeted the Apollo 11 crew during their tour of the world. In 1991, she became the first British monarch to speak to a joint session of the United States Congress during another state visit to that country. She regularly attends the Commonwealth Heads of Government Meetings. Elizabeth II is the most widely-travelled head of state in history. Changes to the Commonwealth. When Elizabeth became Queen on 6 February 1952, she was officially Queen of the United Kingdom, Canada, Australia, New Zealand, South Africa, Pakistan and Ceylon (now called Sri Lanka). These were the Commonwealth Countries. There were many more countries that she also ruled, because they belonged to the British Empire. Altogether, she was sovereign of 32 nations. One by one, many of the countries became independent. They now have their own governments. Some of the countries are republics and have a president as "Head of State". Some of them are now independent monarchies that still have the Queen as "Head of State". Queen Elizabeth II is the only monarch of more than one independent nation. The old British Empire became the Commonwealth of Nations, which includes both monarchies and republics. It is now called "The Commonwealth", and the Queen is the Head of the Commonwealth. She works hard to keep peace and good communication between all the nations that are members. The Queen is particularly fond of visiting Canada. She has called Canada her "home away from home". She also said "I am pleased to think that there exists in our Commonwealth a country where I can express myself officially in French," and, "whenever you sing [the French words of] 'O Canada' you are reminded that you come of a proud race." The Queen's relationship with her governments and other countries. Ever since she became the Queen, Elizabeth has spent about three hours every day "doing the boxes". The "boxes" are two large red boxes that are brought to her from the Parliament every day. The are full of state papers sent to her from her various departments, embassies, and government offices. One of the most famous photos taken of Elizabeth as a teenager shows her with her father, the King, learning about "the boxes". Because she has been doing this since 1952, she probably knows far more about the government of the UK than anybody else alive. When the Queen is in London, she meets with her Prime Minister once a week, to discuss things that are affecting the nation. One Prime Minister, Margaret Thatcher wrote: "Anyone who imagines that [these meetings] are a mere formality or confined to social niceties is quite wrong; they are quietly business like and Her Majesty brings to bear a formidable grasp of current issues and breadth of experience." The Queen also has regular meetings with the First Minister of Scotland and other Ministers of the Parliament of the United Kingdom. She also has meetings with Prime Ministers and Ministers of her other realms, when she is in their country, or when they visit London. She takes a strong interest in the government of her other realms. When Paul Martin, Sr. went to London to discuss the Constitution of Canada, he said later that the Queen knew and understood far more about the Canadian Constitution than any of the British politicians. In the late 1990s, there were "referendums" in which the people of Scotland and Wales were asked if they wanted parliaments that were separate from the parliament of the United Kingdom. This was called a "devolution policy". As a result, the new Scottish Parliament and the National Assembly of Wales, were set up. The Queen opened the first sessions of these two bodies. In Australia, ever since the states became one country at Federation, there has been a movement for Australia to become a republic, with an elected President as Head of State instead of the Queen. In 1999, the people of Australia were asked in a referendum whether they wanted a republic. The decision of the people was to remain a monarchy. The Queen visited Australia the following year and said that she would continue to serve Australians as she had done for 48 years. The Queen surprised Mary McAleese, who is now President of Ireland, by inviting her to lunch with the Duke of Edinburgh. The Queen wanted to hear the views of a leading Irish Nationalist, about Northern Ireland. Mary McAleese, said that the Queen was "a dote" which means "a really lovely person (in Hiberno-English). Elizabeth II has warm friendly relationships with many world leaders. Her first Prime Minister of Australia, Sir Robert Menzies called her "my Dear" and recited a poem that said "I will love her till I die". She has friendships with Mary Robinson, President of Ireland (1997-2002) and George W. Bush, who was the first American President in more than 80 years to stay at Buckingham Palace. Nelson Mandela, in the BBC documentary, called her "my friend, Elizabeth". In May 2007, the Queen and Prince Philip made a state visit to the United States, in honour of the 400 anniversary of the Jamestown settlement. Faith and Duty. Elizabeth II, as the Monarch of the United Kingdom, is the "Supreme Governor" of the Church of England and sworn protector of the Church of Scotland. In fact, although she is very interested in the Church of England, she gives authority to the Archbishop of Canterbury. She sometimes attends the yearly meeting of "the General Assembly of the Church of Scotland". The Queen regularly goes to church at St. George's Chapel at Windsor Castle. When she stays at Sandringham House, in Norfolk she goes to St. Mary Magdalene Church. When the Royal Family is holidaying at Balmoral Castle, they go to Crathie Kirk. When the Queen is at Holyroodhouse, which is the Royal Palace in Edinburgh, she goes to Canongate Kirk. The Queen often meets with leaders from other religions as well. In 1980 she became the first British Monarch to visit the Vatican, where she was welcomed by Pope John Paul II. She made another visit twenty years later on October 17, 2000. Queen Elizabeth II is Patron of "The Council of Christians and Jews" in the UK. The Queen has shown a very strong sense of duty, ever since she was a girl. The "Coronation Oath" that she would serve her people all the days of her life has always been very important to her. Some people think that now that she is old, perhaps she will retire ("abdicate") and let her son Prince Charles take the throne. People who know her well, including Prince Charles, have said that this will never happen. Courage. The Queen has often shown her courage, ever since she joined the military at 18, and drove an ambulance in London, while the city was being bombed. During a trip to Ghana in 1961 she was warned that it was dangerous to be near the President Kwame Nkrumah because people wanted to assassinate him. But she refused to be rude to him by keeping away. The Prime Minister of the United Kingdom, Harold Macmillan wrote that the Queen got very impatient with people if they tried to treat her like "a film star". In 1964, when the Queen was invited to Quebec, there were fears for her safety. There were suggestions that the tour should be cancelled. But The Queen’s Private Secretary replied that the Queen would be horrified if she was stopped from going to Quebec because of extremists. During the Trooping the Colour in 1981 there was an attempt on the Queen's life. Six rounds of blanks were fired at her from close range as she rode her horse down The Mall. Her only reaction was to duck slightly and then continue on. In 1982 there was a surprising incident when a man called Michael Fagan successfully broke into Buckingham Palace in the morning, while the Queen's Police Guard was walking the dogs. He set off an alarm but one of the staff turned it off, because they thought it was faulty. Michael Fagan then wandered around, drank a bottle of wine and cut his hand on a broken ashtray. When he found the Queen's bedroom he woke her up, and sat on the end of the bed, to tell her his problems. The Queen kept quite calm. She got up to get him some cigarettes and was able to call a large "footman" (a servant) who held onto the man until the guards came. Michael Fagan was charged with stealing the wine. Family relations. Throughout her long reign, Queen Elizabeth II has been supported in her many official duties by her husband, Prince Philip, Duke of Edinburgh. Prince Philip made an Oath of Allegiance to the Queen on the day of her Coronation. The Queen has also had the support of her mother Queen Elizabeth, known as "The Queen Mother", who lived to be 101 years old, and stayed very active in her old-age. The Queen is the patron of many organisations and charities. She has many invitations and official duties. Many of the duties have been shared by other members of the Royal Family, who have also become patrons of many organisations. Among the hard-working Royals are her son Charles, Prince of Wales and her daughter, Anne, the Princess Royal, as well as the Queen's cousins, the Duke of Kent, the Duke of Gloucester, Prince Michael of Kent and Princess Alexandra. The Queen has had a lot of sadness over the broken marriages and divorces of three of her children, Prince Charles, Princess Anne and Prince Andrew. Prince Charles, to avoid scandal, and because of the position he would one day hold in the Church of England, had difficulty finding a wife who would be acceptable. His marriage to Lady Diana Spencer was thought of as a fairytale wedding because she was young, innocent and beautiful. But it soon became unhappy, and ended in divorce, and in the terrible tragedy of her death in 1997. In the year 2002, within a few months of each other, the Queen's mother and sister Princess Margaret both died. On April 9, 2005, Prince Charles married Camilla Parker-Bowles, whom he had loved for very many years. Their marriage was a "civil ceremony" in the Guildhall at Windsor, which the Queen did not attend. Some people thought that this was a sign that she did not approve. But the marriage was followed by a religious ceremony in St. George's Chapel at Windsor Castle, which the Queen and all the Royal Family attended. Of the younger members of the family, it is said that the Queen is very close to her daughter-in-law, Sophie, Countess of Wessex, wife of the Queen's youngest son, Prince Edward. The Queen has a good relationship with all her grandchildren but particularly Prince William, Princess Beatrice and Zara Phillips. As the Queen has got older, people have sometimes worried about her health. When she appeared with a plaster on her arm, there was a rumour that she was sick, and needed "intravenous" treatment. But in fact, she had been bitten while stopping her dogs from fighting. The Queen is very rarely sick, but lately, has had some problems with her back. Since her 80th birthday, the Queen is leaving more duties to the younger members of the Royal Family, particularly to Prince Charles, who will one day follow her as the reigning monarch. Silver Jubilee. In 1977, the Queen celebrated her Silver Jubilee, marking the 25 anniversary of her coming to the Throne. There was a royal procession in the golden State Coach and a service of thanksgiving at St. Paul's Cathedral. Millions of people watched on television. There were public "street parties" held across the UK. Five commemorative stamps were also printed. The Jubilee line of the London Underground, which opened in 1979, was named in honour of the anniversary. Golden Jubilee. In 2002, Elizabeth II celebrated her Golden Jubilee, marking the 50 anniversary of her coming to the Throne. The Queen made a tour of the Commonwealth realms. There was the first ever pop concert in the gardens of Buckingham Palace, and a service of thanksgiving at St. Paul's Cathedral. The celebrations were not so big as 25 years earlier, because the Queen's mother and sister had both died that year. Diamond Wedding Anniversary. The Queen and Prince Philip celebrated their sixtieth (Diamond) wedding anniversary on Monday 19 November 2007, with a special service at Westminster Abbey. The night before, Prince Charles gave a private dinner party at Clarence House for twenty members of the Royal Family. On the following day, 20 November, The Queen and Prince Philip went off on a visit to Malta, where they had stayed from 1949 to 1951 after getting married. A Royal Navy ship which was nearby, got its sailors to line up on deck, to form a big number '60', for the couple's sixtieth wedding anniversary. Wealth. People often wonder how rich the Queen really is. It is very hard to tell. The reason for this is because she owns several large properties, such as Sandringham House and Balmoral Castle which have never been valued. She also owns a fabulous collection of works of art, which she "holds in trust". This means that she cannot sell them. They belong to "the Crown" but not to Elizabeth as a person. The artworks and the properties are worth billions of dollars. In 2006, "Forbes" magazine published an estimate of her personal fortune. They guessed (on evidence) that it was about US$500 million (£280 million). At the time of the Tsunami disaster of December 26, 2004, it was said that Queen Elizabeth II gave more from her private money, than any other person. However, she did not give the money to the governments of the countries. She gave it to many charities such as the Save the Children Fund. List of the countries of the Commonwealth Realm. The Queen has a coat of arms in each of her Realms. In the UK, they are known as the "Royal Coat of Arms of the United Kingdom". Every British monarch has used these arms since the reign of Queen Victoria.There is a separate "Royal Coat of Arms" for use in Scotland, which shows the insignia of the Order of the Thistle.  
Question	A question is what someone asks, usually when there is something that he or she does not know. In writing, a question mark comes at the end of a question. This is a question mark: ? Types of question. Sometimes a question needs a simple answer "Yes." or "No." Examples of these questions. People may give a short answer. People may give a long answer. It depends on the question.  
Boss	A boss is someone who is in charge of a project or staff in a company or organization. In most cases, the boss is the person who supervises employees who have jobs in a company or organization. Bosses can have many different job titles, depending on the type of company or organization they work for. Job titles for bosses include: manager, supervisor, director, superintendent, team leader, and project leader.  
Gun	A gun is a machine used to shoot bullets. Guns are also called "firearms". They can be of many different sizes: small enough to hold in one hand, or large enough to fire shells to sink a warship. Guns that are small enough to be carried and used by one person all have the same basic parts: a trigger, a barrel, and a handle. The trigger is pulled by a finger to fire the bullet. The barrel guides the bullet. The handle is held by the human who will fire the gun. In military terms, the word "firearm" is usually used for the type of weapons that soldiers carry (pistols and rifles), while the word "gun" is used for larger guns that fire at higher speed. The weapons on warships and tanks are called "guns" or "turrets" (if placed on a rotating base), not "firearms". Guns are very effective weapons. Guns guide bullets at a very high speed which is much more deadly than a traditional arrow. Bullets are contained within "rounds", also known as "cartridges". A cartridge consists of a "bullet", a "casing", "Propellant" and a "primer". "Cartridges" have different ways of being loaded into different kinds of weapons. Cartridges can be loaded directly into a firearm or into a "clip", a "magazine" or other bullet container which is loaded into the firearm. Some firearms have their rounds loaded into the "stock (or butt)" of the weapon. A "clip" is loaded with rounds and the "clip" is loaded into a weapon. The "magazine" is a container for the rounds which has a spring that moves the bullets into place for firing. Firearms known as "revolvers" have a cylinder with holes that the bullets are loaded into. Modern guns are usually loaded with a "magazine" and are called "automatic loading". Use of firearms. Firearms are designed to kill. Most firearms are designed to kill people. Some kinds of firearms, such as hunting rifles, are designed to kill other animals. A deer hunter usually shoots a deer with a rifle. Some people also use firearms for shooting sports, usually known as "target shooting". "Target Shooting" is an Olympic sport. Guns are the main weapons used by armies. In modern armies every soldier has a firearm as part of his or her equipment which they are taught to use and keep in good working order. Guns have been used by armies since about 900 AD when the Chinese began using cannons. Cannons were used in European armies and on battleships by 1500. Long barreled guns called muskets, that could be carried and used by one person, were used in China by the 1300s. Guns were not an important weapon in European armies until the 1600s. Because guns are weapons that are made to kill, many countries only allow soldiers, policemen, (and in some countries, noblemen) to have them. In many countries a person must have a special permit (or license) if they want to own a gun. Depending on the gun, people need to be a certain age and may need to meet other criteria to get such a permit. In United States and other countries, people can buy guns and use them for self-defense, sport such as hunting, target shooting and target practice. In some countries, such as Australia, people on farms are allowed to keep guns but it is difficult for a city person to own a gun without a good reason.  
Hobby	A hobby is an leisure activity that people do for fun or recreation. People do it because they like it. Arts and crafts. Some people do arts and crafts. They make clothing or decorations with their hands. Some popular arts and crafts that involve textiles or fabrics include crocheting, sewing (making clothing), embroidery (e.g.,cross stitch, needlepoint, crewel and satin stitch, etc.), knitting, and quilting. Some people like to hobbies that involve making images on paper, such as scrapbooking, painting, and drawing. Some people like to make three-dimensional decorations using clay or wood, in the hobbies of pottery, sculpture, wood carving, and woodworking. Some other arts include movie-making, photography, and musical hobbies such as singing, playing musical instruments, and writing songs. Games and puzzles. Some people enjoy hobbies such as playing games or solving puzzles. Games include board games such as chess, card games, and newer games such as wargaming and role-playing games. Popular puzzles include jigsaw puzzles and crossword puzzles. Reading and learning. Some people enjoy spending their time reading books, magazines, and newspapers, or writing stories or in a diary. Other people enjoy learning foreign languages by taking classes, or doing research, such as genealogy (learning about your family history). In the 2000s, many people have Internet-based hobbies, such as editing Wikipedia or having online discussions in Newsgroups. Some people enjoy computer activities, such as computer programming, learning about open source software, or playing computer games. Some people enjoy learning about electronics such as doing amateur radio broadcasts or building robots. Hobbies in the home. Some people enjoy working on their home and learning how to repair their home by themselves, without hiring repair people or plumbers. Some people enjoy learning how to repair motor vehicles, such as antique cars, motorcycles, or pickup trucks. Some people even build and repair sailboats in their backyard. Many people have hobbies that they do in the kitchen, such as cooking, making meals for their guests and family, and making their own beer. Many people also have hobbies in their home that involve animals, such as keeping a pet animal, such as a dog, a cat, or a turtle. Some people even learn about dog breeding. Collecting. Collecting is a popular hobby in North America and in Europe. People enjoy finding interesting examples of different items and learning about them. Some of the well-known types of collecting include stamp collecting, coin collecting, trading cards such as baseball cards, and autographs of celebrities (famous people). People also collect toys, books, comic books, and old records. Some people collect antiques and artwork, but these hobbies are more rare, because antiques and artwork are usually expensive. A type of hobby that is related to collecting is model-building. People who do model-building as a hobby collect small models which they build, paint, and then display. Some common types of model-building hobbies include model airplanes, model rockets, model ships, model cars, and model railways. Outdoor activities and sports. Outdoor hobbies include birdfeeding, birdwatching, canoeing, gardening, hiking, walking, and sports such as baseball, bowling, cycling, fishing, hunting, and sailing. Other hobbies. Many people spend a lot of time in leisure activities that are not necessarily called hobbies. Some people disapprove of spending time on these activities. These activities include watching television, drinking alcohol, and taking illegal drugs. For more hobbies, see: List of hobbies.  
World Trade Center	The World Trade Center (WTC) in New York City had several buildings. These buildings were designed by Minoru Yamasaki with Antonio Brittiochi. Minoru Yamasaki was an American architect. The World Trade Center was most famous for its Twin Towers. These two skyscrapers, the North Tower and the South Tower, were once the tallest buildings in the world. They had 110 floors each. The Twin Towers and the WTC building 7 were destroyed in the September 11, 2001 attacks while the other buildings were damaged beyond repair. Currently, the site is being developed as a memorial ground to the victims of the attacks, with a new Freedom Tower set to be built in its place.  
Hour	An hour (abbreviation: h or hr) is a unit of measurement used to measure time. An hour is equal to 60 minutes. 24 hours are equal to one day. Unlike the second, the hour is not an SI unit.  
Minute	A minute is a customary unit of time, it is equal to 60 seconds and there is 60 minutes in an hour. It is not a proper SI unit of time like the second. A minute is also 1/60 of a degree.  
Coat	A coat is a piece of clothing that is worn over a person's upper body. It can be used to keep warm or dry. It may be worn to make a person look good.  
Study	To study is to try to learn something. There are many different ways to study something. For example,  
Head	The head is the part of the body where the brain is. It is also where the face is. Different things may be worn on the head, for example a headband, a headdress, or a hat. Some people get pains in their head occasionally, known as headaches. Also, some people have worse pains in their head called migraines. A "head" in English can also mean a person in charge of something, such as the head of a company. Also, the word "head" can also mean the front of something. An example of this is the word "Headline", meaning large words on the front page of a newspaper. Oral sex. The word head is also slang word for fellatio, when a man's penis is in another persons mouth. This is because the tip of the penis is sometimes called "the head".  
Norway	Norway is a country in the north of Europe. It is a part of the Scandinavian peninsula. The mainland of Norway is surrounded by a coast and borders with Russia, Finland,and Sweden. The coast touches the Oslo Fjord, Skagerrak, and the North Sea. The Kingdom of Norway has been independent since 1905. Its head of state is now King Harald V. The national day is May 17, which celebrates Norway's constitution of 1814. The parliament is called "Stortinget" and its members are elected by the people every 4 years. About 4.6 million people live in Norway. The capital, is the city of Oslo. It is also the largest city, with a population of over 530,000. Other major cities are Bergen with 230,000 people and Trondheim with 150,000; both have been the Norwegian capital in earlier years. Norwegian is the national language. There are two official written versions of Norwegian called "bokmål" and "nynorsk". Many Sami individuals, are native speakers, of one of the Sami languages. ("Nord-samisk" is also an official language in a number of "kommuner". (Each "kommune" has a mayor.) History. King Harald is the first king born in Norway in over 600 years. He has two children; Princess Märtha Louise and Crown Prince Haakon Magnus. In World War I Norway was neutral and served as a trading nation. Norway tried to stay neutral in World War II, but was occupied by German forces from 9 April 1940 to 8 May 1945. Even though it is a country it is special Ministry of Defence. The Government has Norwegian soldiers working in Afghanistan, together with soldiers from other countries that belong to Nato. Economy. oil, hydroelectric power, and fish. Other natural resources are agriculture, forests, and minerals. The Government collects much money from various sources, and has policies intended to spread this wealth among Norwegians. This spread of wealth, is done both directly and indirectly. Ethnicity. A native population of Norway, the Sami people, previously lived mainly in the northern parts of the country. Many Sami individuals, now, do not live in areas that are considered to be Sami. Tourism. Among tourists to Norway, more come from Germany than from any other country. The Norwegian and German languages are related. Media. The largest newspapers in Norway are BT Bergens Tidende, VG Verdens Gang, Aftenposten and Dagbladet. Norway has no national newspaper. The 3 last newspapers are Oslo-based. Famous people born in Norway. See: Norwegian people Languages. Not all Sami individuals, can speak any of the Sami languages.  
Albania	Albania is a country in Southeastern Europe. The capital is Tirana. About 3.6 million people live in Albania. Albania is next to Serbia (Kosovo), Montenegro, Greece and Macedonia. It has a coast on the Adriatic Sea in the west, and a coast on the Ionian Sea in the southwest. The official language is Albanian. The national anthem is "Hymni i Flamurit".  
Hungary	Hungary is a country in Central Europe. Its capital city is Budapest. Hungary is slightly bigger than its western neighbor Austria and has about 10 million inhabitants. Other countries that border Hungary are Slovakia, Ukraine, Romania, Serbia, Croatia and Slovenia. Hungary's official language is the Hungarian language. It has been a member of the European Union (EU) since 2004. In Hungarian the country is called "Magyarország" (Hungary) or "Magyar Köztársaság" (Hungarian Republic). Medieval Hungary, 896-1526. The Hungarians established Hungary in 896, after they had arrived there from their previous, Eastern European territories. Prince Árpád was their leader at the time; he also established the first royal house of the country, the Árpád-house. In 1000, after the first king, Saint Stephen had been crowned, the country became a Kingdom. In 1241, the Tatars (Mongols) invaded the country, causing many deaths and damages. In 1301, the Árpád-house died out. Later on, kings from various houses were ruling over Hungary. The greatest of them is Matthias Corvinus, famous for protecting the country against the Ottoman aggression. However, some decades after he had died (1490), the Ottomans defeated the country in the Battle of Mohács (1526). The Kingdom was cut up to three parts: the western and northern areas remained Hungary, the southern region fell under Ottoman rule, and the eastern parts became semi-independent as the Principality of Transylvania. Between 1526-1867. The Kingdom of Hungary became a Habsburg dependency, because an agreement made in Vienna in 1515 said that the Habsburg family would take over the territory of the Jagellion family in Bohemia and Hungary if the line of kings should die out. In 1686, the Ottomans were forced to leave, and the country was reunified. There were many nationalities living in the country at this time; except Hungarians, there were also present the ancestors of modern Slovaks, Serbs, and Romanians. In 1703, Francis II Rákóczi, a Hungarian nobleman organized a revolution against the Habsburgs, as Hungarians were not satisfied with them. However, his revolution failed in 1711, and he had to go to exile. The next most important event is the "Hungarian Revolution of 1848", when the inhabitants of the country mutinied again. The fights were finished in 1849, with Habsburg success. The leaders of the revolution were executed. Austria-Hungary, 1867-1918. The country tried to find the way towards consolidation: in 1867, the two most important Habsburg territory, Austria and Hungary signed a treaty, and they established the Austro-Hungarian Monarchy. The now situation was feasible for both sides: the agreement brought massive economic growth. Between the World Wars, 1918-1946. In 1918, the Kingdom was abolished, and a republic was established, as people felt enough of war. This republic was short-lived, and soon the Communists seized power (1919). Their rule was too irresponsible and many people, including the peasants and the intelligentsia, were tortured. The communist had to abandon the country as Romanian troops invaded it. In late 1919, the Hungarian forces, led by Admiral Miklós Horthy, finally occupied the capital, Budapest as well. In response to the communist deeds, they launched the "White Terror", in which they persecuted the communists and their supporters. The kingdom was re-eastablished. Horthy was elected as the regent of the country, as the assemly decided not to recall the Habsburgs. Hungary lost the war. According to the Treaty of Trianon (1920), Hungary lost two thirds of its territory. On the majority of these territories, non-Hungarians were living; however, many Hungarians also found themselves outside their country, in the nation state of Romanians or Slovakians. Thus, the main political goal of the governments under Horthy was to revise this treaty, and at least, to regain the Hungarian-inhabited lands. Communist Hungary, 1946-1989. After the fall of Nazi Germany, Soviet troops occupied all of the country. So Hungary gradually became a communist satellite state of the Soviet Union. After 1948, Communist leader Mátyás Rákosi established Stalinist rule in the country. He forced collectivization and planned economy. This led to the 1956 Hungarian Revolution. Hungary withdrew from the Warsaw Pact. But the Soviets sended in over 150,000 troops and 2,500 tanks. Nearly a quarter of a million people left the country during the brief time that the borders were open in 1956. János Kádár became leader of the communist party. In 1991 Soviet military presence in Hungary ended and the transition to a market economy began. Republic of Hungary, 1989 onwards. Today, Hungary is a democratic republic. Elections are held in every fourth year. The current president of the country is László Sólyom, and the prime Minister is Ferenc Gyurcsány. Demographics. Hungarians make up the largest part of the population but there are also several other ethnic communities. The largest of these are Romas and Germans. Hungarian is the most widely used language in Hungary but of course ethnic communities often use their own languages as well. The majority of Hungarians are not religious, Roman Catholic or Calvinist (in Hungarian 'református' - 'Reformed'). Geography. Hungary's highest point is "Kékestető" (1,014 m; in the northeastern part of Hungary). The River Danube, one of Europe's largest rivers divides Hungary into a western and an eastern part. The region west of the Danube is called Transdanubia ("Dunántúl"). Transdanubia has a hilly landscape and many small villages and towns. The large flat area in the eastern part is the Great Plains ("Alföld"). Along the Slovakian border there are mountains. Lake Balaton, Central Europe's largest lake can be found in Hungary. This small country has several thermal spas too. Lake Hévíz is one of the world's largest thermal lakes. Hungary, however is a landlocked country (it has no seacoast). Its biggest cities are Budapest, Debrecen, Miskolc, Szeged, Pécs, Győr and Szolnok. Szolnok is found at the juncture of the Tisza River and the Zagyva River (stream).  
Netherlands	The Netherlands is a country in Europe. More than 16 million people live there. To the north and west of the Netherlands lies the North Sea. To the east is the country Germany and to the south is the country Belgium. The Netherlands is one of the countries that started the European Union. People who live in the Netherlands are called "Dutch. The language of the Netherlands is also called Dutch Name. "The Netherlands" means "the low lands". The land is very flat, and only rises a little bit above the sea level. One third of the land is below sea level. The Netherlands is also sometimes mistaken to be Holland. Holland was a very rich area in the western part of the Netherlands, thus causing people to be mistaken. Some people who do not live in the western part of the Netherlands do not like it when people call the country Holland. Holland means "wooded land" because the Holland area used to be covered with forests. History. At the end of the Middle Ages the dukes of Burgundy, a country that is now part of France, united seventeen areas. Those areas were called the Netherlands. When the daughter of a duke married the king of Spain, the Netherlands became part of Spain. In the 16th century many Dutch people became Protestant. The king of Spain did not like it, he wanted all Dutch to be Roman Catholic. He decided that all Protestants should be killed. Of course the Dutch people did not like this, and in 1568 they started a war against Spain. The war lasted until 1648, therefore it is called the Eighty Years' War. An important leader of the Dutch in this war was William the Silent. In 1648 the Netherlands and Spain signed peace. The Dutch people were allowed to keep all the areas they conquered. The part of the Netherlands that was not conquered by the Dutch stayed part of Spain. Later this part became the country Belgium. When the Netherlands became independent, it was a very special country. That time almost all countries in Europe were ruled by a king, but the Netherlands was not. The Netherlands was made up of seven provinces, that were ruled by civilians. Together those provinces were ruled by a stadtholder, but he did not have much power. In the 17th century the Netherlands was the richest and one of the most powerful countries in the world. Therefore the Dutch call the 17th century the Golden Age. They had possessions all around the world. The most important possession were the East Indies, a country that is now called Indonesia. The Dutch also founded the city New York, but they called it New Amsterdam. In 1628 they sold it for 60 gilder. The Netherlands often fought wars against other European countries, especially against England. Michiel de Ruyter, a Dutch admiral, became a Dutch hero when he defeated the English navy close to London. In the 18th century the Netherlands became poorer. Many people thought this was the fault of the stadtholders. Many thought they had too much power and wanted them to get away. In 1789 the French people deposed their king. French armies attacked other countries to depose their leaders too. In 1795 they attacked the Netherlands. Stadtholder William V had to flee to England. The Netherlands were renamed to Batavian Republic and became a democracy. But the French were not content with the Dutch ruler, so in 1806 the French emperor Napoleon made his brother Louis Bonaparte king of the Netherlands. Louis became popular in the Netherlands, but the emperor was again not content with him, so in 1810 the Netherlands became a part of France. In 1815 Napoleon was defeated, and the Netherlands became independent again. The rulers of European countries thought it was a good idea to make the Netherlands stronger, to make them able to resist another French invasion. Therefore Belgium and Luxembourg were added to the Netherlands. William I, the son of stadtholder William V, became king. The Belgians were not happy with the Dutch king. In 1830 they revolted. William sent an army, but it was defeated by the Belgians. In 1831 the Belgians chose their own king, and Belgium became an independent country. Some people thought the Dutch king had too much power. They wanted to give him less power and vote for the government themselves. In 1848 there were violent revolts against the kings of many European countries. The Dutch king was afraid the same would happen in the Netherlands. Therefore he allowed Johan Rudolf Thorbecke to write a constitution. From then on people were allowed to vote. At first only rich men were allowed to vote. From 1919 on everyone was allowed to vote. In World War I, the Netherlands did not fight. The Dutch wanted to stay neutral in World War II as well, but in 1940 the country was invaded and occupied by Germany. Just like in other countries they had occupied, the Germans started to kill Jews. Anne Frank was a Jewish girl who lived in the Netherlands. She died in a German concentration camp. When she and her family were hiding for the Germans, she wrote a diary. After the war her diary became very famous. In 1944 the American, Canadian, Polish and British armies liberated the south of the Netherlands from the Germans. They wanted to cross the Rhine river to liberate the rest of the country, but they were defeated by the Germans. It took until May 1945 before the entire country was liberated. During the five years of German occupation, 250,000 people had died in the Netherlands. Shortly after the war, Indonesia declared its independence. The Dutch sent soldiers to Indonesia. During the war the Dutch realized how it is to be occupied by another country, so some people thought the Dutch should not do the same to the Indonesians. After other countries, including the United States, told the Dutch to leave Indonesia, they finally did so (1949). After the war the Netherlands became one of the richest countries in the world. In 2004 the United Nations said the Netherlands were the 5th best country to live in. Politics. The Netherlands is a constitutional monarchy. That means the country has a king or queen, but the real power is in hands of a parliament, chosen by the Dutch people. All Dutch people who are 18 or older are allowed to vote. There are elections every four years. After the elections, parties that have had a majority of the votes create a cabinet. The cabinet consists of a prime minister and several other ministers. The Netherlands is known for tolerance in politics. The Netherlands is the only country where soft drugs are not entirely considered illegal. Furthermore the Netherlands is one of the few countries that allow same-sex marriages, euthanasia and prostitution to a certain extent. Provinces. Apart from these provinces the Netherlands Antilles and Aruba are also part of the Kingdom of the Netherlands. Geography. In fact a large part of Holland was created by the sand that came from the many rivers flowing through it. Notable Dutch rivers are the Rhine, the Maas, the IJssel and the Scelt. A large part of the Netherlands is below sea level. This is because the Dutch have made many lakes and parts of the sea dry, creating polders. Therefore there is a saying in the Netherlands "God created the earth, except the Netherlands. Because the Netherlands were created by the Dutch themselves." This makes the Netherlands very flat. In the very south-east of the Netherlands, in Limburg, there are some hills. Therefore, this region is a tourist-attraction for many Dutch people. The highest point in the Netherlands, the Vaalserberg, is 321 metres above sea level. People. The Netherlands is a small country, but many people live there. It is one of the most densely populated countries of the world. Most people in the Netherlands speak Dutch. In Friesland about 200,000 people speak Frisian. Frisian is the language with the most similarities to English. Some Dutch people speak dialects. The Saxon dialects spoken in the north eastern part of the Netherlands are somewhat similar to Lower German. According to a survey done in 2006, 25% of the Dutch people are Christian and 3% believe in an other organised religion, like Judaism, Islam or Hinduism etc. 26% are 'unbounded spiritual' (have their own beliefs and are not tied to a religion). The other 44% are not religious.  
Ukraine	Ukraine ("Україна", [ukrajina]) is a country in Europe. Russia is East of Ukraine, Belarus is in the North, Poland and Slovakia are in the West, Hungary, Romania, Moldova and self-proclaimed Transnistria are to the South West and the Black Sea is to the South. Ukraine is a republic. It is part of the Commonwealth of Independent States. The capital of Ukraine is Kiev ("Київ" — Kyiv [Kyjif] by Ukrainian; "Киев" by Russian [Kijef]). Official language. The official language of Ukraine is Ukrainian (українська мова, [ukrajin’s’ka mova] by Ukrainian), but 30 to 50 % use Russian in every day life. Ukraine divided. Ukraine is divided into 24 oblasts, Autonomous Republic of Crimea (Автономна Республіка Крим [avtonomna respublika krym] by Ukrainian) and two cities with special status — Kyiv and Sevastopol in Crimea. The largest cities of Ukraine. Kiev (the capital from 1934), Kharkiv (the capital of Soviet Ukraine in 1917—1934), Dnipropetrovsk, Donetsk, Odesa, Zaporizhia, Lviv (last one before 1939 — the polish territory). Modern History. In the Soviet epoch Ukraine was a Soviet Socialist Republic in Soviet Union. Independence day — 24 August 1991. President elections: 1 December 1991, July 1994, October-November 1999, October-December 2004 Parliament elections: March 1994, March 1998, March 2002, March 2006, September 2007 (prematurely) Constitution of Ukraine was adopted by Parliament (Verkhovna Rada) 28 July 1996 with changes 8 December 2004. Orange Revolution. The political demonstrations in autumn-winter 2004 after falsification of Presidential elections that gathered millions of people all over the country. On November 26, 2004, Victor Yuschenko lost the Ukrainian presidential election (Viktor Yanukovych was declared winner). However, Yuschenko and his followers argued that the election had been corrupted. They argued that the election results had been falsified by the Ukrainian government, in support of the opposing candidate Victor Yanukovych. They organized political demonstrations in autumn-winter 2004 that gathered millions of people all over the country. They called the demonstrations "The Orange Revolution". Current Prime Minister Yulia Tymoshenko was an important ally of Victor Yuschenko during the demonstrations. The Constitutional Court of Ukraine ordered a second round of elections, which Yuschenko won.  
Liechtenstein	Liechtenstein is a country in Europe. It is the fifth smallest country in the world and one of the few landlocked countries in the world. Liechtenstein is located between Austria and Switzerland. It was a part of the Holy Roman Empire until 1806 when it became an independent principality. Liechtenstein was linked with Austria until the end of World War I, after that Liechtenstein is linked with Switzerland in a customs union. It is the only landlocked country in the world to be landlocked by a landlocked country. The official spoken language in Liechtenstein is German. The capital of Liechtenstein is Vaduz, a very small town of 5000 people. Liechtenstein is famous for its many private banks. It also has more companies than people.  
Portugal	Portugal is a country in the south-west of Europe. The Atlantic Ocean is to the west and south, and Spain is to the north and east. Compared to the countries near Portugal, Portugal is actually quite smaller. Three groups of islands in the Atlantic Ocean are also part of Portugal: the Azores ("Açores"), the Madeira and the Savage Isles ("Ilhas Selvagens"). The Savage Isles are a small group of islands with nobody on them, controlled by Madeira. The country says that Olivença is also part of it, but it is controlled by Spain (even the United Nations do not recognize the occupation). History. Portugal became its own kingdom in 1139. The border with Spain has been almost the same since the 13th century. Fishing and trade with other countries are some of the most important economic activities. Portugal was important in world exploration for two reasons. Henry the Navigator, a prince from Portugal, was very interested in exploration. Inventions in navigation led to a bigger knowledge of geography. Portugal was a world power during the 15th and 16th centuries. However, it lost a lot of money soon after this. The city of Lisbon was destroyed in an earthquake in 1755. The country was occupied during the Napoleonic Wars. It lost its colony, Brazil, in 1822. In 1910, Portugal became a Republic, and in 1926, a military group took control of the country from the Portuguese 1st Republic. This began a time of rule by fascist governments. This lasted until 1974. That year, a peaceful left-wing army coup, called the "Carnation Revolution" happened. The coup changed how the country was run. The next year, Portugal allowed its colonies in Africa to be on their own: Mozambique, Angola, Guinea-Bissau, Cape Verde and São Tomé and Príncipe. It lost its colony of East Timor in Asia to an Indonesian battle. Portugal went into the European Union in 1986. Another Asian colony, Macau, became part of China again in December 1999. The main language of Portugal is Portuguese. Famous Portuguese people are Luis de Camões, Afonso Henriques, Fernando Pessoa and Btm  
Slovakia	Slovakia (Slovak: "Slovensko")(Official name The Slovak Republic, "Slovenská republika") is a country with no access to the ocean in central Europe. It is bordered by Austria in the southwest, Hungary in the south, Ukraine in the east, Poland in the north and Czech Republic in the northwest Its capital city is Bratislava. Other main cities are Košice, Banská Bystrica, Žilina, Trenčín, Nitra, Prešov, and Trnava. Slovakia is a member of the European Union. History. The Celts started to settle since 450 BC. The coins named "Biatec" represent the first use of writing in Slovakia. At the turn of millenniums, various Germanic tribes like Quadi and Marcomanni started to overtake the area. The Roman Empire established a series of outposts along the Danube river. They even fought Germanic tribes, with the most northern presence being in Trenčín ("Laugaritio"), during the Marcomannic Wars. The Great Moravia was at first in constant quarrels with the Eastern Francia, and at the beginning of the 10th century, with the Magyars who arrived from Asia. The Magyars beat the Great Moravia in 906, overtook the area and established the Hungarian Principality, resulting later in the creation of the Kingdom of Hungary in year 1000. Slovak settlements continued to be in the north, while those of the Hungarians were in the south. A huge population loss resulted from the Mongol invasions in 1241. The Hungarian kings started to invite other settlers, for example Germans in the 13th century, and many others started to arrive in the kingdom, Vlachs from Romania in the 14th century and Jews. The expansion of the Ottoman Empire in the 16th century from the south, who occupied the two most important towns in the kingdom, Buda (capital) and Szekesfehérvár (coronation capital) and southern regions, the center shifted to Slovakia and the capitals moved to Bratislava ("Pressburg", "Pozsony" at that time). The fights against the Ottomans and an uprising against the Habsburgs caused a lot of destruction. After the Ottomans started to retreat back from Hungary Bratislava continued to be capital until 1848, when it was moved back to Budapest. The creation of the dual monarchy Austria-Hungary gave free hand to the Magyars, and Slovaks until 1918 were under cultural repressions from the Hungarian government, limiting the Slovak language, and promoting its Magyarisation policy. The area was a part of Czechoslovakia from 1918 to 1992. Czechoslovakia became independent from the Austrian-Hungarian Empire in 1918. The first Czechoslovakian president was Tomáš Garrigue Masaryk. Czechoslovakia split for the first time in 1938/1939, when Slovakia, with Hitler's help, became independent, though all the time until 1945, the end of the World War II was puppet ally of the Nazi Germany. Czechoslovakia was once again created in 1945, where the Communists took rule in 1948 and ruled until 1989, when the series of events, called Velvet Revolution overthrown them. Soviet inspired Czechoslovakia peacefully split into two countries (Slovakia and Czech Republic) on January 1 1993, in what became known as the Velvet Divorce. Slovakia has been a member of the European Union since May 1, 2004. Geography. Slovakia is noted primarily for its mountainous nature, with the Carpathian Mountains being in the north and various lowlands mostly in the south. The highest mountain range are the Tatra mountains with the highest peak, the Gerlachov Peak (2,654 m). Major Slovak rivers besides the Danube are the Váh and Hron. The Slovak climate is temperate, with warm summers and cloudy, cold and humid winters. Demographics. About 5.4 million people live in Slovakia. Most people speak Slovak (86%), but in southern regions of Slovakia people speak also Hungarian (9%), with some municipalities even being with the Hungarian majority (for example, Komárno or Dunajská Streda), Ruthenian or Ukrainian are spoken in the northeast. A minority Roma population speak versions of the Romany language and are scattered mainly in the east. The Slovak constitution guarantees a freedom of religion. The majority of Slovaks are Roman Catholics (69%), the next are the atheists (13%). Other religions include Lutheranism, Greek Orthodox and Calvinism. There are about 5,000 Muslims in Slovakia and 2,000 of Jews. Administrative division. These are further divided into many districts. There are currently 79 districts of Slovakia.  
Slovenia	Slovenia is a country in Central Europe. The capital and largest city of Slovenia is Ljubljana.Its major language is Slovenian.Their population is right now about 2.0 million.Slovenia's leading exports are manufactured goods and aluminium. A very long time ago, Illyrian and Celtics tribes lived in Slovenia. In the first century BC Slovenia was ruled by the Romans. In the sixth century AD, Slavs lived there. Slovenia was ruled by Austria from 1335 until 1918. In 1918 it became a part of Yugoslavia. During World War II, Italy, Hungary and Germany took parts of the country but in 1945 it became part of Yugoslavia again. In June 1991, following a 10-day war, Slovenia became an independent country. Currently it is considered the most advanced country from what is called "Ex-Yugoslavia." It is also a member of the European Union.  
Oldham Cricket Club	Oldham Cricket Club are a cricket team which currently plays in the Central Lancashire League. The the ground that the club plays at is called "The Pollards".  
Denarius	The denarius was a small silver coin. It was made by the Roman Empire and Roman Republic a long time ago. The denarius weighed about 3 to 4.5 grams. It was the main coin of Ancient Rome. During the Empire the front side usually had a picture of the emperor on it. The coin was sometimes made of copper and painted silver in color.  
Jack knife	A jack knife is a knife. It has a blade that folds into the handle. It is also a dive in which the body is bent and then straightened before entering the water.  
Luffa	A luffa (also spelled loofah or loofa) is a long thin dried inner part of the fruit of a tropical plant. It is often used as a sponge for washing the body. Before it gets ripe, it is also a good vegetable.  
Kimono	Kimonos (着物) are traditional Japanese clothes. "Kimono" meant "something you wear" originally. Long ago, people in Japan wore kimonos every day. Now, people only wear a kimono for special occasions such as formal ceremonies. A kimono is a robe shaped like a "T". Normal kimonos reaches to the ankles, and has very long sleeves. Kimonos for women have usually colorful design of flowers, butterflies, etc. People wear a wide belt called an "obi" with their kimono. Obi are also colorful. Women's kimonos are all the same size. They fold them and tuck them to make them the right size. People who are very tall or heavy have to have kimonos made for them. There are different types of formal and casual kimono. Kimonos are usually made of silk, but there are cotton and polyester kimonos as well. Kimonos are very expensive. One woman's kimono can cost more than US$10,000. The obi (belts) are very expensive too. They can cost thousands of dollars. Most people's kimonos are not so expensive. Some people make their own kimono, or buy them second hand. Japanese people have been wearing kimonos for hundreds of years. Today, kimonos are worn only at special times. More women wear kimonos than men. Men wear kimonos most often at weddings and Japanese tea ceremonies. Men's kimonos are made of "haori" (top) and "hakama" (loose-fitting pants). People who play some sports like kendo also wear kimono. They are tough, thick and short, not like typical women's kimono. They are usually called "do-gi". In Japan people can take classes about wearing kimonos and learn about how to choose kimonos and how to tie the obi. Most Japanese women do not know how to put on a kimono by themselves because it is very difficult. Some people work as "kimono dressers". They help people to put on their kimono. Some people still wear kimonos every day in Japan.  
Sconce	A sconce is a holder for candles or electric lights that is fixed on a wall. Most of the time, sconces are also meant to make the place look more beautiful.  
Culture	Culture is a word for people's "way of life", meaning the way they do things. A group of people has a separate culture when that group sets itself apart from others through its actions. Not everyone agrees on the meaning of culture. To some, it means the outlook or opinion of an entire society, that can be reflected in their words, books and writing, religion, music, clothes, cooking, etc. National cultures. Cultures are what make countries unique. Each country has different cultural activities and cultural rituals. Culture is more than just material goods, that is things the culture uses and produces. Culture is also the beliefs and values of the people in that culture. Culture also includes the way people think about and understand the world and their own lives. Different countries have different cultures. For example, some older Japanese people wear kimonos, arrange flowers in vases, and have tea ceremonies. Regional or local cultures. Culture can also vary within a region, society or sub group. A workplace may have a specific culture that sets it apart from similar workplaces. A region of a country may have a different culture than the rest of the country. For example, Canada's east coast Maritime region has a different culture than the rest of Canada, which is expressed by different ways of talking, different types of music, and different types of dances. A family may have a specific set of values, morals or beliefs that differ from other families of the same ethnic background. For example, a family may emphasize community values. Company cultures. Companies or other organizations (groups of people) can have a separate culture. Japanese manufacturing companies often have a different culture than other companies; the workday starts with exercise, and the workers are very loyal to the company. Companies in the high-technology sector often have a different culture than other companies. Software and computer companies sometimes allow employees to play games during the workday, or take time off work to relax, because these companies believe that this will help the workers to think better. Anthropology. "Anthropology" is studying human beings and how they relate to each other. An "anthropologist" is a person who studies anthropology. Anthropologists believe that people use symbols to communicate (express) their experiences -- who they are, what they believe, where they started. Anthropologists call this use of symbols "culture". For example, immigrants (people who move from one country to another) may keep some of their customs from their old country. By keeping their culture in this way, they express who they are and that they came from somewhere else.  
Houseplant	A houseplant is any kind of decorative plant. People grow them indoors, usually in a house, where these plants gets their name.  
Waxed paper	Waxed paper (or wax paper) is a type of paper which has been coated on both sides with wax. This gives it a translucent look. It is used for wrapping food because grease, oil, and water cannot pass through it. It is also used to line food containers because many kinds of food which would stick to normal paper will not stick to wax paper. Many kinds of dry foods were once stored in wax paper because of its resistance to water. Wax paper has been replaced by plastic wrap for most purposes.  
Japanese tea ceremony	The Japanese tea ceremony (called cha-no-yu, chado, or sado) is a special way of making green tea (matcha 抹茶). People who study the tea ceremony have to learn about different kinds of tea. They also have to learn about kimono (Japanese clothes), flowers, and many other things. It takes many years of practice to learn the tea ceremony. History. Tea came to Japan from China in about 900 AD. Tea became very popular in Japan, and Japanese people started to grow tea in Japan. In the 12th century, "matcha" (green tea powder), became popular. This tea comes from the same plant as black tea. By the 16th century, all people in Japan, rich people and poor people, liked drinking tea. A man called Sen no Rikyu started teaching about tea ceremony. Many years have passed, but people still make tea the same way that Sen no Rikyu taught. Tea ceremony. People do the tea ceremony in a special tea room or a special building called a "cha-shitsu". Most people wear kimonos. When people go into the tea room they take off their shoes and sit on special floor mats called tatami. Cha-shitsu often are very small. The guests (the people who go to the tea ceremony) sometimes eat food and drink special Japanese wine called sake. Before they drink the matcha (green tea) they eat something sweet. The host (the person who does the tea ceremony) symbolically purifies the tea bowl and the other tea things. Then he or she puts some green tea powder into the tea bowl. The host mixes the tea with hot water. He mixes it with a whisk. The guests drink tea from the bowl. When everyone has finished drinking tea, the host cleans everything and puts them away. Then the guests leave. A tea ceremony can take from about twenty minutes to about four hours.  
Sideboard	A sideboard is a piece of furniture. It is often placed in a dining room with a long table and cupboard below to hold dishes, glasses, and other things.  
Movie	Movies (also known as films or motion pictures) are a type of visual communication which use moving pictures and sound to tell stories or inform (help people to learn about new ideas). People in every part of the world watch movies as a type of entertainment; a way to have fun. Fun for some people can mean laughing, while for others it can mean crying, or feeling afraid. Most movies are made so that they can be shown on big screens at cinemas or movie theatres. After movies are shown on cinema screens for a period of time (ranging from a few weeks to several months), movies are shown on pay television or cable television, and sold or rented on DVD disks or videocassette tapes, so that people can watch the movies at home. Later, movies are shown on television stations. How movies work. A movie camera or video camera takes pictures very quickly, usually at 24 pictures (frames) every second. When a movie projector, a computer, or a television shows the pictures at that rate, it looks like the images on the screen are moving. Sound is either recorded at the same time, or added later. The sounds in a movie usually include the sounds of people talking (which is called dialogue), music (which is called the "soundtrack"), and 'Foley', the sounds of activities that are happening in the movie (such as doors opening or guns being fired). How movies are made. A screenwriter writes a script, which is the story of the movie with the words that the actors will say. Then a producer hires people to work on the movie and gets all of the money that will be needed to pay for the actors and the equipment. Producers usually get the money by borrowing it from a bank or by getting investors to lend money to the movie production. Some producers work for a movie studio; other producers are independent (they do not work for a movie studio). Actors and directors read scripts to find out what to say and what to do. The actors memorize the words from the script that they will say in the movie, and learn the actions that the script tells them to do. Then the director tells the actors what to do and a cameraman takes motion pictures of them with a motion picture camera. When filming has finished, an editor puts the moving pictures together in a way that tells the whole story within a set amount of time. Audio engineers and sound engineers record music and singing and join it with the moving pictures. When the movie is done, many copies of the movie are made by movie labs and put onto movie reels. Then the movie reels are sent to cinemas. An electric machine called a projector shines a very bright light through the movie, and people sitting in a dark room see it on a big screen. Genres. A genre is a word for a type of movie or a style of movie. Movies can be fictional (made up), or true, or a mix of the two. Although hundreds of movies are made every year, there are very few that do not follow a small number of set plots, or stories. Some movies mix together two or more genres. Dramas are serious, and often about people falling in love or people who have to make a big decision in their life. They tell stories about relationships between people. They usually follow a basic plot where one or two main characters (each actor plays a character) have to 'overcome' (get past) an obstacle (the thing stopping them) to get what they want. Tragedies are always dramas. For example, a husband and wife who are divorcing must each try to prove to a court of law that they are the best person to take care of their child ("Kramer versus Kramer"). Emotion (feelings) are a big part of the movie and the audience (people watching the film) may get upset and even cry. Action movies have a lot of exciting effects like car chases and gun fights, involving stuntmen. They usually involve 'goodies' and 'baddies', so war and crime are common subjects. Action films usually need very little effort to watch, since the plot is normally simple. For example terrorists take control of a skyscraper and ask for a lot of money in exchange for not killing the people who work there. One man somehow manages to save everyone and is the hero ("Die Hard"). Action movies do not usually make people cry, but if the action movie is also a drama, emotion will be involved. For example, four brothers go off to fight in the 2nd World War and 3 are soon killed. Someone decides that the 4th brother must be saved. He and the soldiers who rescue him end up fighting the enemy and the soldier who led his squad trying to save the 4th brother is killed and becomes a hero ("Saving Private Ryan"). Thrillers are usually about a mystery, strange event, or crime that needs to be solved. The audience is kept guessing until the final minutes, when there are usually 'twists' in the plot (surprises). Comedies are funny movies about people being silly or doing unusual things that make the audience laugh. Romantic Comedies (Rom-Coms) are usually love stories about 2 people from different worlds, who must overcome obstacles to be together. Rom-Coms are always light-hearted, but may include some emotion. Buddy movies involve 2 heroes, one must save the other, both must overcome obstacles. Buddy movies often involve comedy, but there is also some emotion, because of the close friendship between the 'buddies'. Example: the "Lethal Weapon" series or "Butch Cassidy & the Sundance Kid". Science fiction movies are set in the future or in outer space. Some use their future or alien settings to ask questions about the meaning of life or how we should think about life. Science fiction movies often use special effects to create images of alien worlds, outer space, alien creatures, and spaceships, for example the "Alien" series. Western movies tell stories about cowboys living in the western United States in the 1800s. They are usually really Action movies, but with historical costume. They may or may not involve Indians (Native Americans). Horror films use fear to excite the audience. Music, lighting and sets (man-made places in film studios where the film is made) are all designed to add to the feeling. Animated movies use childish images like talking pigs to tell a story. These films used to be drawn by hand, one frame at a time, but are now made on computers. The first major animated film, still highly respected by audiences and the movie industry is "Fantasia" by Walt Disney, made in 1946. This film has no dialogue (speaking) but uses Classical music. Simple stories are shown with action being in time to the music. For example pigs dressed as ballet dancers dance to the "Nutcracker Suite' by Tchaikovsky. Documentaries are movies that are (or claim to be) about real people and real events. They are nearly always serious and may involve strongly emotional subjects, for example cruelty. Movie noir movies are 1940s-era detective movies about crime and violence. The business of making movies. Movies can make profits in the hundreds of millions, be they dollars, euro or pounds. In India movies have become an enormous part of the economy. The industry has always been dominated by quite a small number of major studios, like MGM, Warner, Columbia or Paramount. There are many large companies that provide all of the services needed to make movies, such as special effects, lighting, set building. Many of these employees belong to unions who say how much their members must be paid. A huge number of smaller companies also offer services, such as music studios (which record the music for original movie soundtracks) and CGI (computer generated imagery. Finally there are movie distribution companies (which send movies around the world or around a country), and advertising companies who let people know about the film. Movies with famous stars and large budgets (lots of money), are designed to have a wide appeal, so that hopefully millions of people will pay to see them. Movies like this, which always cost the most to make, are called blockbusters. Special effects can add a huge amount to the cost of a film, especially the newest CGI effects, but people have come to expect them and every blockbuster film tries to out-do the last. Today in 2008, some films can cost up to $200 million to make. But when you stop to think that very successful films can make many times that amount in profit, it is easy to see why the studios keep producing them. This kind of movie will have a lot of promotion through television advertising, billboards and internet sites. In blockbuster movies, there is usually a happy ending, in which all of the problems in the plot (story) are figured out or fixed and almost everyone (except the baddie) live happily ever after. Some films have been so successful that the studios keep releasing more and more films with the same characters and basic plots, for example the James Bond films and Star Wars. At the opposite end of the scale to the blockbuster, there is the independent, art, or Indie movie. These are usually made by small movie companies, or even just a small group of people that do not have much money. An example is The Blair Witch Project, which cost only about $60,000, but which has so far taken perhaps $200 million in ticket and DVD sales. Films like this are very unusual and usualy become popular 'underground' (people tell each other about it), so that they become cult, or popular but not mainstream. Independent movies often tell more creative or unusual (strange) stories, or may have sad endings that do not appeal to the big studios, because they can't be sure how the public will react to them. They rarely make a lot of money, but if they are successful, the big studios will quickly try to get the people involved to sign a contract with them, by offering them a lot of money to make another film. It is often the case that the new film, with its big budget and its stars will be less successful than the first, for example Blair Witch Project 2. Famous actresses. Note: the word actress is rarely used any more in the US film industry, male and female are all simply actors.  
Holland	Holland is the name of a region in the western part of the Netherlands. Holland was a county of the Holy Roman Empire and later the leading province of the Republic of the Seven United Netherlands (1581–1795). Today, there are two provinces called Holland in the Netherlands: North Holland (Noord-Holland) and South Holland (Zuid-Holland). Those provinces were created in 1840. The earlier country and province of Holland used to be greater, but some Hollandic parts were given to other provinces during the French occupation (1795-1813). Willemstad became part of North Brabant, the islands of Vlieland and Terschelling were given to Friesland, and the island of Urk to Overijssel. Many people (inside and outside the Netherlands) use the name 'Holland' to refer to the entire Netherlands, but that is not correct. It is like calling the United Kingdom England, the United States America or like calling the EU a country. Some Dutch people who do not live in Holland do not like it when people call the entire country Holland. For a short time (1806–1810), there was a Kingdom of Holland, which was in central and northern Netherlands and East Friesland in Germany. Holland is also the name of a region in England.  
Isotope	The atoms of a chemical element can exist in different types. These are called isotopes. They have the same number of protons (and electrons), but different numbers of neutrons. Different isotopes of the same element have different masses. Mass is the word for how much substance (or matter) something has. Things with different masses have different weights. Because different isotopes have different numbers of neutrons, they do not all weigh the same or have the same mass. Different isotopes of the same element have the same atomic number. They have the same number of protons. The atomic number is decided by the number of protons. Isotopes have different mass numbers, though, because they have different numbers of neutrons. The word isotope, meaning at the same place, comes from the fact that isotopes are located at the same place on the periodic table. In a neutral atom, the number of electrons equals the number of protons. Isotopes of the same element also have the same number of electrons and the electronic structure. Because how an atom acts is decided by its electronic structure, isotopes are almost the same chemically, but different physically to their original atoms. Heavier isotopes react slower than lighter isotopes of the same element. This "mass effect" is large for protium (1H) and deuterium (2H), because deuterium has twice the mass of protium. For heavier elements, the relative mass difference between isotopes is much less, and the mass effect is usually small. Atomic nuclei are protons and neutrons held together by the strong nuclear force. Because protons have a positive charge, they push against other protons. Neutrons are electrically neutral, and they attract the protons more than the protons push against other protons. This makes the nucleus more stable. So, we need neutrons for more than two protons to be in a nucleus. As there are more protons, more neutrons are needed to have a stable nucleus. But, if there are too many neurtrons, the nucleus becomes unstable. In Nature some elements have just a single isotopes. For example, fluorine 19F is the only isotope of fluorine. Other elements have many isotopes. For example, xenon has 9 isotopes. Also, some isotopes are radioactive. These are called radioactive isotopes. Others are not radioactive. These are called stable isotopes. Hydrogen has three common isotopes. The most common isotope of hydrogen is called protium (1H). A hydrogen atom with an extra neutron (atomic mass of 2) is called deuterium(2H). Hydrogen with and two neutrons (atomic mass of 3) is called tritium(3H). Protium and deuterium are stable isotopes, while tritium is a radioactive isotope. The heaviest elements in the periodic table are all radioactive. All of the isotopes of radon, thorium, and uranium are radioactive, since they are very heavy. This is because the nuclear forces inside the nucleus of the atom have a tough time holding together all the particles with so many protons and neutrons inside.  
Crushing by elephant	In the past, many rulers in south and southeast Asia had people crushed by elephants. This was common for more than 4000 years. The Romans and Carthaginians also sometimes did this. For hundreds of years, people used elephants for military purposes. Death under the foot of an elephant was common for people who left the army or prisoners as well as for military criminals. The elephant would step upon the head of the condemned, the one commanded to die. Usually, handlers trained the elephant to put its large foot gently on the person's head. At this point, witnesses looked under the elephant's foot to make sure the prisoner was the one who committed the crime. Often, the condemned would scream and beg the witnesses to say it was not him. If a witness stated this was not the criminal, they would probably commit perjury. Perjury means lying at a trial. In those days rulers could punish perjury with death. Few witnesses denied the condemned was the criminal, because then the elephant may crush them instead. Then the mahout, or elephant driver, gave the order, and the elephant would push down with its weight. The skull broke and the foot crushed the head flat. Sometimes, the elephant would drag the condemned through streets before the crushing. Some elephants crushed the arms and legs first, to increase the pain. Most rajahs, Indian rulers, kept elephants for death by crushing. The public could often see the deaths; this was the rulers' warning not to commit a crime. Many of the elephants were very large, weighing more than nine tons. Rulers wanted crushing by elephant to be bloody and gross. Some rulers in history condemned children, too. Many rulers in South Asia used elephants as executioners, ones who put the condemned to death. One nonreligious Mogul Emperor, Akbar (1547-1605), used his favorite elephant as a judge, too. Akbar ruled in the city of Agra from 1570-1585. He believed that his favorite elephant could know who was guilty. He put thousands of people to death this way. Even when the crimes were minor, he sent them to the elephant. Elephant handlers staked them before the great elephant and tried to convince it to step on them. The huge elephant crushed most, but sometimes refused. Akbar believed this proved their innocence and then released them. There are few records about crushing by elephant. Many records were lost. The British wrote many things about it during their long rule of India. The British used crushing by elephant even into the 20th century. They used it to terrify, and because the Indians had used it before them. When the British took over a state, they liked to use local ways of doing things. Different regions crushed people by elephant in different ways. One region put people inside of a bag, so they would not have to watch what was about to happen. Then, the elephant would crush the bag flat with the condemned inside. In another region, people made the condemned watch the elephant slowly come from far away. Its huge feet kept coming closer. Sometimes, they buried the condemned to the neck. The elephant would come and step on the head. Some places made the condemned put his head on a special stand. The stand had fountains on the sides where brains and blood would flow when the elephant pressed down its huge foot. Robert Knox was an English traveler. He wrote about a Sri Lankan crushing in 1681. The last time an elephant executed someone was in Bikaner, India in April, 1947. The executioner was a state elephant named Hawai that weighed over eight tons. Under British rule, it put over 150 thieves and murderers to death with its huge foot.  
Power network	A Power network is a type of contact network where its members can tell other people what to do. It must be large enough to literally scare or force people to go along with its requests, which makes them orders or commands. This typically requires thousands of people in constant touch with each other. A political party is the most obvious example. It is typically much larger than a social network but is not one, since people can only call on each other for a small number of reasons, and perhaps at specific times. Also not every member of the network has the same role or right to help. A corporation may also be a power network if it relies on many power relations to maintain itself - for instance, the right to draw oil from the ground or dump waste without being held responsible for it. When a power network achieves some stable grasp of political power and daily working control of some critical infrastructural capital, it becomes a power structure. In a democracy the visible power networks represented by the parties compete regularly in an election - but much of the power structure, typically the bureaucracy, does not change, and is typically ignored as a power network in itself.  
Citizenship	Citizenship is the relationship between a person and his or her country, usually the same one he or she lives in, supports, and in return gets protection from. A person is usually a citizen of the country where he or she is born, but sometimes a person will apply to change his or her citizenship to become a citizen in another country. In most countries, citizens have rights such as political participation at a lawful age, and duties, such as keeping the laws. Some have made a difference between a "citizen", living in a republic (a country with no king), and a "subject" who is under the rule of a king or queen.  
Elephant	Elephants are the largest living land mammals. The largest elephant known was a male shot in Angola in 1974. It weighed 12 tonnes (13.5 tons). An elephant child is called a "calf". At birth, a calf can have a weight of 100 kg (225 pounds). The baby elephant develops for 20 to 22 months inside its mother. No other land animal takes this long to develop before being born. An elephant's most obvious part is the "trunk". The trunk is a very long nose, made from the upper lip. An elephant uses its trunk to grab objects such as food. Elephants also have "tusks". Tusks are large teeth coming out of their upper jaws. A lot of ivory comes from elephant tusks. Ivory traders killed too many elephants, so now hunting them is illegal. The number of elephants has tripled in the last 6 months. People knew for a long time there were different kinds of elephants. The scientific word for a kind of animal is "species". These species are African and Asian elephants. African elephants are larger and have bigger ears. These big ears have many "veins", which carry blood throughout the body. Scientists think that the blood going through their ears helps African elephants to cool off. The weather is hotter in Africa than in Asia, so it is hard for elephants to stay cool. Female African elephants have tusks, but female Asian elephants do not. African elephants have a low place in their back. African elephants have two "fingers" at the end of their trunks, but Asian elephants only have one. Elephants eat a lot of grass. Grass is hard to chew, so their teeth are very important. Elephants have 24 teeth: 12 front teeth, called "premolars", and 12 back teeth, called "molars". The teeth come out in order, from front to back. Because grass is very tough, the elephant teeth slowly wear out. When the last molar wears out, the elephant usually dies because it cannot eat. But in a zoo or circus, people can keep elephants alive by feeding them soft food. Scientists call the elephant genus (group of related animals) "Loxodonta" because "loxodont" means a kind of molar. Some African elephants live on the savanna while others live in the forest. Today, many people think these are different species. Scientists named the forest group "Loxodonta cyclotis" and the savanna group "Loxodonta africanus". This means that African elephants are even more in danger of dying off forever than people used to think. Humans have used elephants for different things. The Carthaginian general Hannibal took some elephants across the Alps when he fought the Romans. He probably used the North African elephant, a kind of elephant that does not live today. It was smaller than other African elephants. People have used elephants to move around and to have fun. Many circuses have them. Siamese, Indians, and other South Asians used them for several things. They fought in armies, and they crushed criminals. They also did heavy work like lifting trees and moving logs. However, people have never "domesticated" elephants. Domesticated animals are tame and have babies under human control. The male elephant in heat is dangerous and hard to control. Most elephants used by people are female, except those used in war. In a battle, female elephants run from males, so armies needed males. In the wild, elephants have strong family groups. Their ways of acting toward other elephants are hard for people to understand. They "talk" to each other with very low sounds. Most elephants sounds are so low, people cannot hear them. But elephants can hear these sounds far away. Elephants are related to sea cows, which are large mammals that live in water. Some people think that long ago, the ancestors of elephants also lived under water. Evolution is how one species changes into another. The ancestors of elephants would have used their trunks for breathing air while they swam. Even today, elephants can swim like this. The extinct animals called mammoths were relatives of today's elephants. Modern elephants live only in warm places, but the woolly mammoth had long hair and lived in cold places. Miscellaneous. White elephants are considered holy in Thailand. The most famous fictional elephant is Dumbo. It is a flying elephant in a Disney movie. "The Elephant's Child" is one of Rudyard Kipling's "Just So Stories" Ganesha is the god of wisdom in Hinduism. He has an elephant's head. The elephant is the symbol for the United States Republican Party. It is like the Democratic Party's donkey. The first person to use the elephant as a symbol for the Republican Party was Thomas Nast. He did that in a Harper's Weekly cartoon in 1874. Elephants also have very large brains and are very smart.  
Buddhism	Buddhism teaches people how to reduce their suffering by understanding themselves better. Some see it as a religion, other people think it is a philosophy and for others, Buddhism is a way of finding reality. The teachings of Gautama Buddha - a man who lived between about 563 and 483 BC - tell us how to live a good life. The Buddha was a rich prince. He gave up everything to work out how best to live. His teachings started in India and slowly spread, after his death, through most of Asia, to Central Asia, Tibet, Sri Lanka, Southeast Asia, and the East Asian countries of China, Mongolia, Korea, and Japan and has now spread to the West. Background. The Buddha's teachings are about suffering and how to overcome it. Overcoming suffering allows a person to be truly happy. Buddha taught that if people make good decisions they would be happy and have peace of mind. Buddha taught that life is imperfect and that we will suffer (Dukkha). He taught that we suffer because of desire, anger and stupidity, and he showed that we could end our suffering by letting go of desires and overcoming anger and stupidity. The complete letting go of these negative influences is called Nirvana, meaning "to extinguish", like putting out the flame of a candle. The end of suffering, when one is fully awake (put an end to one's own ignorance) and has let go of all desire and anger, is also called Enlightenment. In Buddhism Enlightenment and Nirvana mean the same thing. Buddhism teaches non-harm and "moderation" or balance, not going too far one way or the other. Buddhists often meditate, or think deeply, while sitting in a special or specific way. They often chant and meditate while walking. Buddhists sometimes do these things to understand the human heart and mind. Sometimes they do these things to understand the way the world works. Sometimes they do these things to find peace. Buddhism does not say if gods exist or not, but one can read many stories about gods in Buddhist books. Buddhists do not believe that people should look to gods to save them or bring them enlightenment. The gods may have power over world events and they might help people, or they might not. But it's up to each person to get to "enlightenment". Many Buddhists honor gods in ritual. Many believe the stories about gods are just there to help us learn about parts of ourselves. What is a Buddha? "Buddha" is a word in the very old Indian languages Pāli and Sanskrit which means "Enlightened one". The word "Buddha" often means the historical Buddha named Buddha Shakyamuni (Siddhartha Gautama), but "Buddha" does not mean just one man who lived at a certain time. It is used for a type of person, the equivalent of a prophet, and there have been many. There were Buddhas a very long time ago, and there will be for a long time in the future. A Buddha is a human being who has woken up and can see the true way the world works. This knowledge totally changes the person. Some say this puts them beyond birth, death, and rebirth. Others think this represents the final extinction of desire. This person can help others become "enlightened" too. To learn more, read: Buddha. Who was the first Buddha? According to Buddhism, there were countless Buddhas before Gautama Buddha and there will be many Buddhas after him. In short, he is not the first, nor will he be the last. However, counting from the present "kalpa" (the beginning of our present universe) Buddha Gautama is considered the fourth Buddha. The first is Gakusandho Buddha, second Gonakamano Buddha and the third Gassapo Buddha. The last Buddha of this "kalpa" will be Mettaya Buddha. Then the universe will renew itself and from then begins a new "kalpa". Old stories say that Siddhārtha Gautama was born around the 6th century BC. He was the one who would become the first Buddha in written history. Some Buddhists believe that Siddhārtha Gautama was a perfect person. He was born a prince, but he wanted to learn the answer to the problem of human "suffering", or pain. He gave up all his money and power, and became a monk without a home. He walked from place to place, trying to learn the answers to life. At last he found enlightenment while sitting under a big tree called the "Bodhi Tree". He was the first person to teach "Buddhism" to the people, and "Buddhists" love him for that. After Siddhārtha Gautama died, his students taught the Buddha's teaching to more people. After a long time, they wrote down the things that he may have said. To learn more, read: Siddhārtha Gautama. The Three Jewels. Buddhists often talk about the "Three Jewels", which are the Buddha, the Dharma, and the Sangha. The Dharma is the way the Buddha taught to live your life. The Sangha is the group of monks and other people who meet together, like a congregation. Buddhists say "I take "refuge" in the Buddha, the Dharma, and the Sangha." This means that these three things keep them safe. They give themselves up to the community and teachings inspired by the Buddha. Four Noble Truths. The Buddha's first and most important teachings are the Four Noble Truths. Five Precepts. Most Buddhists follow five "precepts", or rules, that say what not to do. The Buddha taught that killing, stealing, having sex in a harmful way, and lying are not signs of skill. In some types of Buddhism, when a person wants to be a monk, he will follow other "precepts" also.  
Governor General	Governor General is a representative of a head of state. The term is mostly used in Commonwealth countries, where the governor general is a representative of the monarch. Sometimes the title is spelled as "Governor General", which is used in Canada, but sometimes it is spelled with a hyphen "-", "Governor-General", which is the spelling used in Australia.  
Black hole	A black hole is an object in the universe that has such a strong pull of gravity, even light can't escape it. Until recently, many astronomers did not even know if they existed, but by using telescopes and looking at the universe, they found objects with such a very strong force. They decided it was a black hole with a strong gravitational force. This does not mean that the origin of such a strong force can not be something different than gravitational one. History. In 1783, an English geologist named John Michell wrote that it might be possible for something to be so big and heavy that the escape speed from its gravity is equal to speed of light. Gravity gets stronger as something gets bigger or more massive. For a small thing, like a rocket, to escape from a larger thing, like Earth, it has to go upward very fast or it will fall back down. The speed that it must travel upward to get away from Earth's gravity is called escape velocity. Bigger planets (like Jupiter) and stars have stronger gravity than Earth, so the escape velocity is much faster. John Mitchell thought it was possible for something to be so big that the escape velocity would be faster than the speed of light, so even light could not escape. Some scientists thought Mitchell might be right, but others thought that light had no mass and would not be pulled by gravity. His theory was forgotten. A few months later, a German physicist named Karl Schwarzschild calculated that a black hole could exist. In 1930, Subrahmanyan Chandrasekhar predicted that stars heavier than the sun could collapse when they ran out of hydrogen to burn and died. In 1939, Robert Oppenheimer and H. Snyder calculated that a star would have to be at least three times as massive as the sun to form a black hole. In 1967, John Wheeler gave black holes the name "black hole" for the first time. Before that, they were called "dark stars." In 1970, Stephen Hawking and Roger Penrose proved that black holes "must" exist. Although the black holes are invisible (they cannot be seen), some of the matter that is falling into them is very bright. Formation of black holes. Most black holes are made when a giant star, at least three times bigger than our own Sun, dies. Stars die when they run out of hydrogen or other fuel to burn and start to cool off. A supergiant star's death is called a supernova. Stars are usually in equilibrium, meaning they are making enough energy to push their mass outward against the force of gravity. When the star runs out of energy, gravity takes over. Gravity pulls the center of the star inward very quickly (so quickly that it would have to be repeated several thousand times before it took up a single second), and it collapses into a little ball. The collapse is so fast and violent that it makes a shock wave, and that causes the rest of the star to explode outward. As the gravity pushes the star inward, the pressure in the center of star reaches to such an extreme level that it enables heavier molecules like iron and carbon interact to release nuclear energy. The release of the energy from the star during a very short period of time (about one hour) is with such a high rate that it outshines an entire galaxy. The ball in the center is so dense (a lot of mass in a small space, or volume), that if you could somehow scoop only one teaspoon of material and bring it to Earth, it would sink to the core of the planet. This densely packed ball is called a singularity. Even without a supernova, a black hole will form any time there is a lot of matter in a small space, without enough energy to act against gravity and stop it from collapsing. If super novas are so shiny, why we do not see them often? Actually, there are usually hundreds of years between naked-eye super nova sightings. It is because the period of being a super nova in a star life cycle is only a few hours out of the billions of years in a star's life span. The probability of looking at a star in sky and that being in super nova state is equal to the ratio of an hour over several billion years. It is worth mentioning that all of the heavier materials like carbon, oxygen, all the metals, etc, that make the life on the earth possible and are ingredients of all living creatures, can only form in the extreme pressure at the center of a super nova. So we are all a remnant ash from one exploding star several billion years ago. Appearance of black holes. The singularity in the middle of a black hole cannot be seen, because light cannot escape its gravity. Around the tiny singularity, there is a large area from which no light can escape. The boundary of this area is called the event horizon. The gravity of the black hole gets weaker at a distance. The event horizon is farthest point where it is still strong enough to trap light. The singularity is like the pipe in a sink drain while the event horizon is like the place where the water falls into the singularity. Even farther away, light and matter will be pulled toward the black hole. If a black hole is surrounded by matter, the matter will form an "accretion disk" (accretion means "gathering"). An accretion disk looks something like the rings of Saturn. The disk is very hot and shoots x-ray radiation into space. Think of this as the water spinning around the hole before it falls in. Most black holes are too far away and small to see the accretion disk and jet, though. The best way to know one is there is by seeing how stars, gas, and other things behave around it. With a black hole nearby, even objects as big as a star move in a different way, and a lot faster than they would if the black hole was not there. Also, if a black hole passes between us and a source of light very far away, the light will become quite distorted, much like a fun-house mirror in a circus, until the black hole moves out of the way. The light can also be magnified, like a magnifying glass, allowing scientists to see things farther away. We cannot actually see black holes; one way of detecting them is to look at the sky when a black hole passes between us and a source of light, the light bends around the black hole creating a mirror image, so when astronomers see patches of sky that are identical, they may have found a black hole. Black holes have also been found in the middle of every major galaxy in the universe. These are called supermassive black holes, and are the biggest black holes of all. They formed when the Universe was very young, and also helped to form all the galaxies. Some black holes are also responsible for making quasars. When astronomers first found quasars, they thought they had found objects close to us, but after using a measuring technique called red shift, they discovered these quasars were actually very far away in the universe. A quasar occurs when a black hole consumes all the gas surrounding it. As the gas gets close to the black hole itself, it heats up from a process called friction, and glows so brightly that this light can be seen on the other side of the Universe. It is often brighter than the whole galaxy the quasar is in. A lot of science fiction writers use black holes in their stories, and many scientists wish to find one relatively close to Earth to study one better. Scientists also think black holes might cause wormholes, theoretical "portals" through space.  
Sheffield	Sheffield is a big city in the region called Yorkshire in the North of England. It is the only town in South Yorkshire officially called a city. Sheffield is in the middle of lots of hills. The city centre is where the River Sheaf meets the River Don. The city is east of the Peak District National Park. The area of Sheffield used to be the Anglo-Saxon shire of Hallamshire, the city itself was founded later. Sheffield is famous for making cutlery (like knives and spoons). People in Sheffield have made cutlery for a very long time (a Sheffield-made knife is referred to in Chaucer's "Canterbury Tales", a book from the middle ages). Sheffield is also famous for making steel. Benjamin Huntsman discovered the crucible technique for making steel in 1740. In 1856, Henry Bessemer invented the Bessemer Converter steelmaking furnace. Henry moved to Sheffield to make steel. Later, in 1912, Harry Brearly invented stainless steel in Sheffield. The first football team in the world was Sheffield F.C., set up in 1857. Sheffield currently has two big professional football teams: Sheffield United and Sheffield Wednesday. There are lots of famous bands from Sheffield. Some of them are Pulp, the Human League, Def Leppard and the Arctic Monkeys. Michael Palin is also from Sheffield.  
Fertilizer	A fertilizer is a chemical that helps plants to grow. It is used to replace the mineral salts taken by plants or removed by rain. That means 9% N, 23% P, and 30% K. Leafy plants need lots of N. Flowering plants need lots of P and K. A soil test can tell how much N, P, and K is needed.  
Military	The military is the men and women who work in the army, navy, air force, or other armed forces of a country. The military protects its country by defending it from the armed forces of enemies, if there is a war. The military can also be ordered by the government of the country to attack another country. The word "military" comes from Latin "miles", warrior. People in the military learn many skills, such as how to fire rifles and mortars, drive jeeps, and repair weapons. Other people in the military learn how to fly planes, pilot ships, or repair engines. People in the military usually wear clothes called a uniform, which is often in a camouflage pattern which is designed to make the person hard to see in the forest or desert. There are two ways to join the military. In many countries, people join the military as volunteers (because they want to). In other countries, there are laws that some people have to be in the military, even if they do not want to be. This is called "the draft" or "conscription". It usually depends on age and fitness. People who have been in the military but have left or retired are called “veterans”. Joining up and training. In most countries of the world, young men and (in a few countries) women between 17 and 18 and of good health may be forced by the government of their country to join the military and have military training. This is called "conscription". The countries that do not have conscription include Australia, Bangladesh, Canada, France, Hungary, India, Italy, Japan, Malta, New Zealand, Saudi Arabia, Slovenia, South Africa, Spain, United Kingdom and United States. In some countries, such as Argentina, conscription is legal, but is not used, at the present time. When a person wants to join the military as a volunteer, they "enlist". (This means simply that they put their name on a list.) They have to be above a certain age, 17 or 18 in most countries. They have to pass fitness tests to show that they are well enough to do the jobs that they will have to do. They must also have good enough hearing, to hear instructions and good enough sight to use a rifle. New people in the military are often called “recruits”. They have training at a special camp, sometimes called “boot camp”. During this training, the recruits usually have very little free time. They learn to understand the "orders" or "commands" that are given by the officers to the "troops". (The troops are the military people in a group.) They learn the right ways to obey the orders. They do a lot of exercise to improve their fitness and strength. They learn about weapons, first aid, and their uniforms and "kit". (Their kit is their equipment.) Recruits also learn how to march. (This is the way to walk together, keeping "in step".) Learning to march is sometimes called “drill”. By the time soldiers finish "boot camp", they should know enough to be a helpful person in their group. The camp usually finishes with a parade in which the newly trained recruits show off their marching and other skills they have learnt to important visitors. Once the recruits are fully trained, they are ready to defend (protect) their country from attack, or to go to war, if necessary. Groups. Each part of the armed forces, the army, the navy and the airforce, is organized into groups. People in each of the armed forces are part of a group, that is part of a larger group. Ranks in the United States military. All branches of the US military have both Officers and Enlisted. Enlisted people with a rank of E-4 and above are called Non-commissioned Officers (NCOs). It is usually their job to make sure that common jobs are done properly every day. Each branch also includes "Warrant Officers" ("Chief Warrant Officers" in the Navy). These were enlisted members who have been made officers. They are considered experts in their field, they are higher rank than other enlisted troops, but below officers. There are four ranks of Warrant Officers: WO-1 through WO-4 (CWO-1 to CWO-4) US military. Here are some common ranks for the US Army, Air Force and Marines. Each branch of the military uses different names for the enlisted ranks, but they all use the same for officers. US Navy. The Navy has different ranks. and class. For example, a Electronics Technician (ET) who is an E-5 is called an Electronics Technician 2nd class (ET2)  
Photosynthesis	Photosynthesis is a process used by plants, some protists, and some bacteria to make food. It makes glucose (a kind of sugar) and oxygen from carbon dioxide in the air and water. Cells (very small parts that make up a plant or animal) use it to create energy to live. Summary of the process. Photosynthesis starts when light touches a green part of a plant. Each green cell has small parts called chloroplasts inside of them. Single photons of light hit green chemicals in the chloroplast, causing an enzyme to break apart water. Water, when broken, makes oxygen, hydrogen, and energy. The energy is used by a protein that lets light into the cell. The light cannot get out of the cell until another protein lets them, and this protein uses the energy from the escaping light to make ATP. While this is happening, the hydrogen and oxygen join broken up carbon dioxide to form glucose. This glucose is later used in cellular respiration to form more ATP. Without Photosynthesis, much of the world wouldn't be alive. Everyone and everything needs the oxygen produced by photosynthesis to live. Plants, some Bacteria and Protists make food through Photosynthesis, this is where plants turn Carbon Dioxide and Water into Glucose – Sugar of sorts – using the energy in Sunlight, Oxygen is a waste product.  
Casserole	A casserole is a baked dish of many different types of food, usually mixed together. Many people like to cook casserole because it is a very simple meal. It was invented when women started to work more and was a simple way to cook a nutritional meal. A very popular type of casserole is green bean casserole, which has green beans, milk or cream, and fried onions.  
Plate	A plate is a type of dish where food can be placed after being cooked for eating. Sometimes they are called dishes. They may be made out of ceramic, plastic, paper, or styrofoam. A plate is also one of the broken pieces of lithosphere of the Earth. All plates have irregular shapes. They lie and float on the upper mantle. They move very slowly in different directions. Their movement is driven by the convection currents in the magma. A plate can contain both oceanic and continental crusts. Some contain oceanic crust only.  
Flea	The flea ("siphonaptera") is an insect that lives on many kinds of animals and sometimes humans. Fleas are considered parasites, and they drink the blood of the animal they bite. Fleas can live outdoors in sand or tall grass, and they will jump to any passing animal and lay eggs. Flea bites are usually red bumps and they itch. They can carry disease and make animals sick. There are several types of fleas including the dog flea, cat flea, human flea, northern rat flea, and the oriental rat flea. During the Middle Ages, the oriental rat flea that spread a virus that caused the Bubonic Plague, also known as the Black Death or Black Plague, a huge epidemic the size of today's bird flu. The oriental rat flea would become infected by this virus. After infected the bacteria grew inside of the flea eventually blocking the path to their stomach. Because of this the flea was always hungry. When the flea would bite a human it opened up the skin and since the stomach of the flea was blocked, the blood from the human was heaved up back into the human, but only this time it was infected with the Bubonic virus.  
Terrorism	Terrorism is the act of scaring people for a social or political reason using violence (or threat of violence). A person who uses terrorism is called a terrorist. Terrorists think that if civilians are afraid of them, they will have more power over other people. But a boy who hits his sister only for attention is not a terrorist (although it may hurt very badly). Terrorists may also be trying to make their enemies attack the people whom the terrorists claim to represent. The terrorists do this because they think that the people who have been attacked will help them. For example, terrorism has been endemic to Israel for a long time. There, Palestinian Hamas terrorists killed Israeli civilians in bomb attacks, provoking Israel into carrying out revenge attacks against Palestinian civilians, thus increasing Palestinian hate for Israel and support for Hamas. An example of a well-known terrorist is Osama bin Laden, the founder of al-Qaeda and Abu Musab al-Zarqawi. Although some people first picture terrorists as Muslims or religious groups, but this is not necessarily correct. An example of a non-religious sepratist-terrorist group would be Euskadi Ta Askatasuna also known as the ETA. According to the National Counterterrorism Center, terrorists killed 20,498 people in 2006. By comparison, the World Health Organization estimates that 2 million people die each year from tuberculosis. The major effects of terrorism comes from the fear it generates. Terrorist operations are usually financed by other criminal programs, such as identity theft.  
Krishna	Krishna was the Eight Avatara of Vishnu in Hinduism. He is also a Manifestation of God in the Bahá'í Faith. Krishna's birth. King Kansa was ruling over Dwarka, in [Gujarat], India). His sister Devaki was married to Vasudev. Kansa was very cruel and made his people miserable. At the time of Devaki and Vasudev's marriage, a voice came from sky that their eighth son would kill Kansa. Hearing this, Kansa imprisoned the couple at Mathura and started killing their sons one by one. When the eighth son was born, a miracle happened. The prison doors opened by themselves. Krishna was born in a prison cell. Vasudeva took the infant outside. It was raining heavily but he managed to take him to a place called Vrundawan. He came back to prison with a newly born girl, the daughter of the king of Vrundavan. Kansa tried to kill the girl but she slipped from his hand and rose into the sky. This way Krishna was saved.Many devoted him afterwards also. The Meera bhai was Also one of the devoted one  
South Africa	The Republic of South Africa is a country in the southern region of Africa. About forty-five million people live there. South Africa is next to Namibia, Botswana, Zimbabwe, Mozambique and Swaziland. The largest city is Johannesburg; the capitals are Cape Town, Pretoria, and Bloemfontein. This is because the government is based in Pretoria, the parliament in Cape Town and the Supreme Court in Bloemfontein There are 11 national languages or National Lexicography Units (NLUs): Afrikaans, English, Ndebele, Xhosa, Zulu, Swati, Setswana, Sesotho, Sesotho sa Leboa, Venda and Tsonga. As a result, the country has an official name in each language. One of South Africa's most notable people is Nelson Mandela, who was its President from 1994 until 1999. History. The first European people to come to South Africa were Portuguese explorers. In 1487, Bartolomeu Dias discovered the Cape of Good Hope. Dias wanted to call it "Cape of Storms", but the King of Portugal changed it to "Cape of Good Hope". He called it this because it gave them a new chance to find a sea route to India. In 1652 Jan van Riebeeck colonized the Cape by starting a refresh station. He started the camp for the Dutch East India Company so that they could give fresh food to ships on their way to the south of Asia. Since there were very few native people living in the Cape, slaves were brought from Indonesia, Madagascar and India to work at the Colony. In 1795 Great Britain took the Cape from the Dutch East India Company because it wanted to stop France from taking it. It was given back to them in 1803 but was then annexed in 1807 when the Dutch East India Company went bankrupt. Diamonds were discovered in South Africa in 1867 and gold was discovered in 1884. This caused many people to come to South Africa from Europe hoping to make money. Not only was there gold and diamonds to find but people were needed to run shops, build houses and do many other jobs. The First Boer War happened in 1800-1881. The war was between the British, who controlled the Cape, and the Boer Republics. The Boer Republics were established when Dutch settlers moved north in the Great Trek.The British soldiers and their commanders underestimated the Boers and lost the war. They returned 8 years later in 1899 and won the war in 1902. The British brought many more soldiers this time, and the Boers had no chance of winning. At this time, the British made use of concentration camps which demoralized the Boers and helped the British stop the war from lasting any longer. on May 31, 1910 the Union of South Africa was created from the Cape and Natal colonies, as well as the Orange Free State and the Transvaal, the two Boer Republics. Economy. South Africa's economy is split between First World and Third World standards. The developed part of the economy is similar to that of most wealthy nations, such as Britain or Australia. The rest of the economy is closer to that of poor nations, such as the Democratic Republic of the Congo or rural India. The main industries in South Africa are mining (mostly gold and diamonds), car making, and service industries, such as insurance. Military. South Africa's military is the most powerful in southern Africa. South Africa spends more on its military than any of its neighbors, and as a result it has very advanced weapons. South Africa used to have nuclear weapons, but they were taken apart in 1993. Sports. In 2010, South Africa will be the first African nation to host the FIFA World Cup. It also tried to get the 2004 Olympic Games, but arrived in 3rd place, thus losing to Athens.  
Andorra	Andorra is a European country between Spain and France. There are about 70,000 people living in the country. The capital is Andorra la Vella. It is ruled by a Spanish Bishop and the French President. Andorra's government is a parliamentary democracy.  
Hiroshima	Hiroshima (広島) is the name of a city and prefecture in Japan. Hiroshima city is the capital of Hiroshima prefecture, and the largest city in the Chugoku region of western Japan. About a million people live in Hiroshima. History. In the late Sengoku period and Edo period, Hiroshima was the capital of local daimyos. A big and beautiful castle, Hiroshima-jo was built. Its nickname is Rijo, meaning Castle of the Carp. Atomic bombing. Hiroshima was the site of a nuclear bombing near the end of World War II. The bomb exploded over Hiroshima at 8:16 on the morning of August 6, 1945. Much of the city was destroyed. About 80,000 people were killed instantly. About 60,000 people died soon after because of radiation sickness. More people died later because of cancer or other illnesses caused by the radiation, between 1950, and 1990, approximately 21,343 people died of cancer, resulted from the radiation caused by the atomic bomb. A building near the blast center still remains and is called the Atomic Bomb Dome. Itsukushima shrine. Near to Hiroshima, there is a small island. An old shrine named Itukushima is here. It is said that Itukushima shrine was built at the end of the 5th century. Today Itsukushima shrine and the Atomic Bomb Dome are registered as World Heritage sites. Also was a landing site for the U.S.  
Richter scale	The Richter magnitude scale is a scale of numbers used to tell the size of Californian earthquakes. Charles Richter developed the Richter Scale in 1935. Earthquakes that are 4.5 or higher on the Richter scale can be measured by tools all over the world. The scale is logarithmic, with a base of 10. This means that an earthquake which scores 3.0 on the scale is ten times as powerful that one that scores 2.0.  
Day	A day is the time it takes the Earth to spin around once. It is day time on the side of the Earth that is facing the Sun. When it is night time, that side of the earth is facing away from the Sun. It takes 24 hours for the earth to spin once, so that is one day, including the day time and night time.  
Phases of the Moon	The phases of the moon are the different ways the moon looks during the month. As the Moon moves in space, different parts of it face the Sun. This means that different parts of it are lit up. We only see one side of the moon from Earth because it rotates so that one side is always facing us. The moon phase takes between 29 and 30 days.  
Sphere	A sphere is a shape in space that is like the surface of a ball, usually the terms ball and sphere are used alike, but in math, the precise (exact) definition only allows points in the 3 dimensional space which are uniformly and symmetrically allocated at a fixed length called radius of the sphere. Examples of these are basketballs, superballs, and playground balls. In other places sphere means the earth. a sphere is the 3 dimensional analogue of a circle.  
Quantity	Quantity or amount is how much of something there is that can be counted or measured. Counting. Whole numbers (1, 2, 3…) are used to count things. This can be done by pointing to each one. As things are pointed to, a number is said. Start with the number one. Each time another thing is pointed to, the next whole number is used. When the last thing in a group it pointed to, that number is the quantity of the group. Measuring. Measuring is done with a ruler or a machine. We put a ruler next to a thing to measure how long it is. We put things on a scale to measure their mass. Other machines are used to measure temperature, speed, or electricity. Decimal numbers. When measuring things, a whole number might not be the best answer. A distance might be longer than 5 meters, but less than 6 meters. Meter sticks are marked off in parts of a meter. Decimals are formed by marking off a ruler in ten equal parts. Each part is a tenth. 5.2 meters is a little bit longer than 5 meters. 5.7 meters is a little bit shorter than 6 meters. Each of these tenths can be marked with ten smaller parts. The one hundred centimeters on a meter stick are done this way. Fraction numbers. Fractions are used when there are parts of a whole number. The dial on a machine may be marked with four parts between each whole number. A scale with a bag of potatoes may show five and three fourths kilograms. This would be almost six kilograms. The words "amount" and "number". People often use the word "amount" when they should say "number". The word "number" should be used if a particular number could be put: e.g.  
Advertising	Advertising is the promotion of goods, services, companies and ideas, usually performed by an identified sponsor, and performed through a variety of media. Advertisers influence our identity by making commercials. Many people agree that they influence our identity and they have a huge impact on our life. They influence our identity by using things such as techniques, stereotypes and targeting our audience. Our personal identity is who we are and what things make us up such as occupation, beliefs, personality, self esteem, lifestyle, relation ships, friends, how we look and what we wear. Advertisers use techniques to grab people's attention.For example, to make a burger look tasty in advertising, it may be painted with brown food colouring, sprayed with waterproofing to prevent it from going soggy and sesame seeds may be superglued in place. Advertising will bring new customers and more sales for the business. It can be expensive but can help increase a business's revenue.  
Buddha	A Buddha is a very holy person in Buddhism. The word "Buddha" means "He woke up" in Sanskrit. Buddha was named Siddhartha Gautama. He was the man who started Buddhism. Sometimes people call him "the Buddha". Other times, people call any person a Buddha if they have found enlightenment. If a person has not found enlightenment yet, but is very close to reaching it, then he is called Bodhisattva. In early Buddhism Buddha meant only Siddhartha Gautama. Later an idea began that there could be many Buddhas: some in the past, some maybe in the present and some in the future. Since Buddhism tradition thinks Buddha is an ideal person, tradition reached a notion of 36 ideal features of Buddhas. Some of those features are represented on statues of Buddhas. Some other features, like the feature of their foot, are difficult to be represented on a statue. Buddhists believe that the Buddha was enlightened, which means that he knew all about how to live a peaceful life and how to not to suffer in an afterlife. They think he never got depressed, frustrated, upset or confused. He is said to have never argued with other people, but just said what was true and useful, out of compassion. Some Buddhists pray to Buddhas, but Buddhas are not gods. Buddhas are just teachers, to help people who will listen. A Buddha is a human being who has woken up and can see the true way the world works. This knowledge totally changes the person beyond birth, death, and rebirth. Nothing can annoy him anymore, even the circulation of incarnation, since his enlightenment put him outsides of this eternity circle in time and space. This person can help others become enlightened too in a proper way. There are ideas which are said to lead someone to enlightenment. They are called the "Dharma", meaning the way or the truth. Anyone can become a Buddha, it is said, but it is very hard. Age and gender do not matter. Buddhists believe there have been many Buddhas who were alone, called "pacceka-buddhas". They reached "enlightenment" on their own, but they did not teach others. The first Buddha was afraid to teach people too. Their poor understanding made them hard to teach. But he did teach people, and people followed him. To learn more about the Buddha most people know as the only Buddha, read: Siddhartha Gautama. To learn more about what the Buddhas teach, read: Buddhism.  
Flag of the United States	The flag of the United States of America is a national flag. The flag of the United States has 7 red stripes and 6 white stripes These 13 stripes stand for the 13 original states. The flag also has a "canton", a rectangle in the top left corner. The canton has one star for every state. When a new state joins the United States a new flag is made with an extra star. The new flag is first flown on the "4th of July", the Independence Day. The last states to join so far the United States were Alaska and Hawaii in 1959. Alaska joined on 3 January 1959, so the new flag with 49 stars was used from 4 July 1959. Hawaii joined on 21 August 1959 so the flag with 50 stars that is used today was not flown until 4 July 1960. The colours in the flag are red white and blue. The colours have no special meaning in the flag, but in the coat of arms white for purity and innocence, red for bravery and strength and blue for watchfulness, perseverance and justice. The flag is also often called stars and stripes.  
Mohandas Gandhi	Mohandas Karamchand Gandhi (Devanagari: मोहनदास करमचन्द गांधी; Gujarati: મોહનદાસ કરમચંદ ગાંધી:October 2 1869 - January 30 1948) was a famous spiritual leader and politician from India, the "Father of the Nation". He is also known popularly as "Mahatma" Gandhi. "Mahatma" means "great soul" in the Indian language Sanskrit. Now he is the Martyr of the Nation since 1948. During Gandhi's life, many countries were colonies of the United Kingdom. Many of these countries wanted independence from the United Kingdom. Gandhi was one of the most important people involved in the movement for the independence of India. He was a non-violent activist, who led the independence movement through non-violent protest. Life sketch. Gandhi was born October 2, 1869 in the state of Gujarat in India. Several members of his family worked for the government of the state. When Gandhi was older, he went to England for a few years to study law. After he became a lawyer, he went to the British colony of South Africa where he experienced apartheid, laws that said people with dark skin had fewer rights than people with light skin. He decided then to become a political activist, so he could help change these unfair laws. He created a powerful, non-violent movement. When he returned to India, he helped cause India's independence from British rule, inspiring other colonial peoples to work for their own independence, break up the British Empire, and replace it with the Commonwealth. People of many different religions and ethnic groups lived in British India. Many people thought that the country should break into separate countries so that different groups could have their own countries. In particular, many people thought that Hindus and Muslims should have separate countries. Gandhi was a Hindu, but he liked ideas from many religions including Islam, Judaism and Christianity, and he thought that people of all religions should have the same rights, and could live together peacefully in the same country. He said, "God has no religion." In 1947, British India 'Empire' became independent, and broke into two different countries, India and Pakistan. Gandhi wanted independence, but didn't want the split into two different countries. Instead of celebrating on independence day, he was mourning the division of India. Gandhi's principle of "satyagraha", often translated as "way of truth" or "pursuit of truth", has inspired other democratic and anti-racist activists like Martin Luther King, Jr. and Nelson Mandela. Gandhi often said that his values were simple, based upon traditional Hindu beliefs: truth ("satya"), and non-violence ("ahimsa"). On January 30, 1948, Gandhi was killed by a extremist Hindu activist, Nathuram Godse, who was angry because he felt that Gandhi was too lenient towards Muslims.  
Schizophrenia	Schizophrenia is a type of mental illness. Schizophrenia causes problems with behaviour (the way people act), thinking, emotions, motivation and is linked to psychosis. People with schizophrenia are often thought to have 'lost touch with reality'. The word schizophrenia comes from the Greek words σχίζω (schizo, break) and φρενός (frenos, mind) and means "shattered mind". Psychiatrist Emil Kraepelin was the first person to separate schizophrenia from other types of mental illness. He called it 'dementia praecox', and it was later renamed 'schizophrenia'. While people of many ages can have schizophrenia, most often it starts in early adulthood. For many people, the symptoms of schizophrenia will return throughout their life, although some people will have only one or two episodes. The exact cause of schizophrenia is not known, although many things are known to influence the condition. Scientists have discovered that both life experiences and the biology of the brain and body are important. Schizophrenia is partly genetic (passed on within families) and can be triggered by trauma (disturbing experiences). Schizophrenia is usually treated by the use of drugs which affect the brain, and by training people to understand their thoughts and behaviour with psychotherapy. About one out of every ten people with schizophrenia dies by suicide (killing self). The famous mathematician John Forbes Nash had schizophrenia. John Forbes Nash was awarded the Nobel Prize in economics in 1994. He got the prize for his contributions to game theory. His life is portrayed in the film A Beautiful Mind. Treatment. Drugs are usually given for Schizophrenia. But psychiatrists know that it cannot be healed by the drugs in use today. Drugs called anti-psychotics can suppress some of the positive symptoms. The negative symptoms cannot be cured. Many people with schizophrenia can live good lives. Taking medicine is important to prevent relapses (symptoms suddenly returning). The majority of people recovery full or learn to live a normal life. A small amount may never fully recover.  
Drink	A drink is a liquid that you can take into your body. To drink means to take a drink into your body. Typical drinks: water, tea, milk, juice. All drinks are mainly water. All life needs water to live, most animals get water by drinking. Plants take in water through their roots, which are found underground.  
Need	A need is a thing that a living being, plant or animal, must have to live or to be happy. A thing that someone would like to have, but just needs enough, is called a want. Every person has the same basic needs for the body. Humans have boldily needs of water, food, clothing, and shelter to live. The need for water is the most important because a person will die very quickly without drinking water. In a warm place food is the next most important need. In a cold place, the need for clothes or shelter may be next most important because a person will soon die without these. Other human needs are not so certain. They are mostly needs for the mind. It is often said that a person needs love, family, and friends. These needs are for personal relationships. They may also be wants. It is true that a life may be better with these things, but some friends can be bad, or bad sometimes. Good relationships can make life very happy. Thinking about a need that is not possible can make a person very unhappy. Some of the study of philosophy is about questions like "What are the needs of a human?" The word philosophy is from Greek, meaning the "love of wisdom". Some scientists study the needs of human or animal minds and bodies. The study of the mind is called psychology - "words about the mind". The study of bodily needs is part of medicine.  
Freeware	Freeware is software that people may get without paying for it. It is not to be mixed up with free software. Freeware may be free in price, but the users might not be allowed to share the software or source code with others.  
Yahoo!	Yahoo! is a web portal and an internet content and service provider. It is known for its many products and services, such as their search engine, e-mail, instant messaging, and video, but also contents their products in news, weather forecasting, money and other information. Yahoo! makes money from advertisements in their services.  
Mecca	Mecca or Makkah (called Mecca in older texts (officially: Makkah al-Mukarramah; Arabic: مكة المكرمة‎) is a city in Saudi Arabia. It has a population of 1,294,167 (2004 census). The city is located 73 kilometres inland from Jeddah, in the narrow sandy Valley of Abraham, 277 metres above sea level. It is located 81 kilometres from the Red Sea. Makkah is the holiest city in the Islamic world. Every year, millions of Muslims walk a pilgrimage to Makkah. This is called the Hajj, where they follow in the footsteps of Muhammad. The Kaaba and Masjid al-Haram, the holiest mosque in Islam is situated here. Makkah is closed to non-Muslims except some journalists reporting on the Hajj. History. The Kaaba, the small cubical building which Muslims pray towards is believed to have been built by Ibrahim and has been a religious center ever since. Muslims believed that God commanded Ibrahim to send his second wife Hajar and her son Ismail there. They found the Zamzam Well which led to people settling nearby, and thus Makkah was born. When Ismail was big enough, he helped his father to build the Kaaba. The kaaba is the place that the muslims pray towards. This is known as the Qibla and this is the only place which muslims can pray towards..  
Arabian Peninsula	Arabia is a peninsula in Southwest Asia at the junction of Africa and Asia. It lies east of Ethiopia and northern Somalia; south of Israel, the disputed Palestinian territories, and Jordan; and southwest of Iran. The peninsula has sometimes been called the Middle East, but that term usually refers to the Arabian Peninsula plus the Levant, and Mesopotamia. The term "Arabia" often refers to Saudi Arabia alone. The country of Saudi Arabia covers almost all of Arabia. The majority of the population of the peninsula live in Saudi Arabia and Yemen.  
South	South is one of the 4 main directions on a compass. South is normally down on the bottom of most maps. Australia is south of China, Spain is south of France, and Chile is south of Peru. The South Pole is the farthest south you can go. The South can also mean the Southern United States.  
Central America	Central America is a region between Guatemala and Belize in the North, and Panama at the South. They are all Spanish speaking countries, apart from Belize, whose people also speak English. Central America is part of the continent known as North America.  
French language	The French language "(French: "français" - pronounced "fransei")" is a Romance language that was originally spoken in France, Belgium, Luxembourg, and Switzerland. About 300 million people speak French as a native or a second language. Like most Romance languages, its nouns have genders that are divided into male (masculin) and female (féminin) words. History. In ancient times, the Celts lived in what is now France. In those days, the land was called Gaul (Gallia). The Romans spread their power to Gallia and made Gallia their provinces. Because the Romans spoke Latin, the local people learned Latin and began to speak it. Their own language, Gaulish, tended to be spoken less often, although Breton is a language still spoken today in the part of France called Brittany, that came from the old Celtic language. After the Roman Empire fell and Germanic peoples swarmed the countryside, Latin was changing quickly; and in medieval France it changed into two accents or languages: "langue d'oc" and "langue d'oïl". They both mean "language of yes", because "oc" was the word for "yes" in the south, and "oïl" meant "yes" in the north. Today, the word for yes in French is "oui", pronounced like "we". "Langue d'oc" is now called Occitan, and it is still spoken by many people in Southern France.  
Prime minister	A prime minister manages the politics of a country. With countries that have kings and queens (known as monarchs), they are very important because they are in charge of most of the politics (they are "head of the government". In countries with a president, they might be in charge of most of the politics (as in Ireland), or they may be in day-to day charge, but taking orders from the president as in France.  
Greenland	Greenland is a large Arctic island. It has a population of only 50,000 residents, because of its cold climate. Most of the population lives in the southern part of the island, on the coasts. The capital of Greenland is Nuuk. History. Greenland is a Danish-occupied territory of Denmark, it is part of the North American continent, but Greenland is not a member of the European Union. Greenland is the largest island in the world, excluding Australia and Antarctica, which are continents. The prime minister of Greenland is Hans Enoksen. Population. The island is populated mostly by Inuit and Scandinavians who speak Greenlandic, an Inuit language. Danish is also spoken by most people. The national anthem of Greenland is Nunarput utoqqarsuanngoravit. Landscape. The island has many mountains. All of the cities are on the coast, because everywhere else is covered by a big layer of ice. The major cities are Nuuk, Sisimiut, Ilulissat, and Qaqortoq.  
Union of Soviet Socialist Republics	The Soviet Union (short for Union of Soviet Socialist Republics (USSR)) was a group of countries that came together (a federation). The federation was originally led by Vladmir Lenin and was a major, powerful country. The largest of these countries was Russia, followed by Ukraine. The capital city of the Soviet Union was Moscow. The Soviet Union existed from 1922 to 1991. The nation's government said that it was a socialist country that wanted communism. "Sovjets", or workers' councils, were created to "speak" for the workers, and served as an elite group to control the workers. Republics of the Soviet Union. The Soviet Union was made of 15 republics. These were either "Soviet Socialist Republics", or "Soviet Socialist Federal Republics". Each of these republics was independent. It also had the right to leave the union. The "Federal Republics" were different in that they had more autonomy, and were made up of states themselves. These were often called "Autonomous Soviet Socialist Republics". There were a number of them. Most of them still exist; though they are now republics, within the independent state. The "Tatar ASSR" turned into the "Republic of Tatarstan", for example (It is located around Kazan. Tatars make up 3.8% of the population of Russia)  
Monarch	A monarch is a ruler who rules becuase his parents ruled. A male monarch is called a king. A female monarch is called a queen. Some monarchs are called emperors or "empress"es. Monarchs were very common in history. A lot of countries used to have a monarch, but no longer have them. They are now republics. Some countries that still have monarchs have other leaders that actually have the power. These are called constitutional monarchies.  
Unit	Unit means part of something. It could mean a unit of measurement, or a unit in an army. Units sometimes means the digit in a number on the right, which is also called the "ones". For example, a football team may be called "X United". This means that the town of X has come together to support the group. "Unit" is also slang for the male penis in some countries.  
Uncle	An uncle is a name used in an extended family. A uncle is either a brother of one of someone's parents or the husband of their aunt. That person is the uncle's nephew (male) or niece (female). An uncle's child is a cousin.  
Information	Information is something that we can learn, know about, or understand. For example, a newspaper contains information about the world. Information in Computer Science. People who use computers often use the words "information" and "data" in the same way. In the 1970s and 1980s this was not enough anymore. At that time, the first computer databases were built. In computer science "data" often means a kind of information that has not been checked. That means "data" has not been changed or fixed, and you may not be able to trust it. "Information" means data that has been checked and passed tests for what it must be. A person can trust that "information" is correct. Information can only be correct and good enough to trust if there is a very good and complete way to check the data (data verification) and decide it is good enough (acceptance process). A person must know rules were used to check the data or trust the person who checked the data. If a person cannot tell that this was done, the information still seems to be data for that person, so that person must check the data again.  
Airport	An airport is a place where airplanes can land or takeoff. Most airports in the world have only a long strip of level ground called a runway. Many airports have buildings which are used to hold airplanes and passengers. A building that holds passengers waiting for their planes or luggage is called a terminal, and the sections between the plane and the terminal are called "gates". Airports also have buildings called hangars to hold planes when they are not used. Some airports have control buildings like towers to control where planes go. An international airport is a large airport that airplanes can use to fly to (and from) other countries. Most international airports have shops and restaurants. An airport used by the military is often called an air force base or airbase. An aircraft carrier is a floating airbase. Safety. Today, many airports think that safety is very important. People must walk through a metal detector, a machine that can tell if metal goes through it. If it makes a noise, the officers will make that person take off all things on them that are metal. They also have X-Ray machines that can look into luggage. If officers find items such as weapons, guns, or anything that can be used to kill people, they have that item (and mostly the person who has it) taken away.  
Ice	Water becomes ice when it is very cold. Liquid water freezes and becomes solid ice at a temperature of 0° Celsius (32° Fahrenheit or 273 kelvin). Ice is the common name for frozen water. Other liquids (say ammonia or methane or milk) could be called ice when they freeze but we would always say 'milk ice', for instance, instead of just 'ice'. Places like Antarctica have lots of ice, but people can also find it in home appliances (machines in the home) like the refrigerator or freezer. If people put water in a freezer and leave it for a while, the water gets very cold and will freeze solid, creating ice. People can put water into a copper (or metal) container if they want ice to freeze faster. Copper is a very good conductor of heat--it can freeze water faster than a regular (plastic) ice tray would be able to. Surprisingly, an open tray of hot water can freeze faster than the same amount of cold water! This happens because enough of the hot water can evaporate before cooling, reducing the amount of water to be frozen. Unlike other liquids, water expands as it freezes to become ice; so ice floats on water because ice has less density than water. This is very unusual - just about every other liquid gets more dense as it cools; water ice, however, is an important exception. Liquid water expands by about 9% as it becomes ice - it takes up more space. If water in pipes freezes it can burst the pipe. Water in glass bottles can explode in the freezer if people leave it there long enough to freeze. Water freezing in rock crevices can expand enough to split hard rocks apart; this is an important geological weathering process that can wear down mountains and make rock into soil. Salt water needs a lower temperature to freeze than pure water. The resulting ice contains much less salt than the salt water it came from. This salty ice is not as strong as frozen pure water. Similarly spreading salt on ice melts it: the salt progressively eats into the ice, forming salty water which is not cold enough to be frozen at the same temperature. Because ice floats, even large bodies of water that freeze, like some oceans, only form ice on the surface. Most lakes never freeze to the bottom. Even the coldest oceans, say in the Arctic, only freeze on the top, leaving liquid ocean circulating below. Because of this the Earth's oceans are able to redistribute heat and the climate of the earth has less extremes of heat and cold than it would otherwise. If ice were to sink instead of float, the oceans would fill up with ice from the bottom, would remain solid and only some of the top would thaw. A solid ocean would not circulate heat. But because ice floats on the surface the water beneath can continue to circulate and the ice on the surfce stays exposed and readily melts when the temperature rises. The earth's climate is always changing. When it is very cold it's called an ice age. The most recent ice age finished only ten thousand years ago. During ice ages very large areas of the earth are covered in ice, snow and glaciers. The causes of ice ages are complex, or hard to understand. Global warming is currently affecting the earth's ice resources and its causes are also very complex. When materials are cooled their molecules vibrate less and compact together. When most materials reach a temperature called the freezing point, the molecules form a crystalline solid - although some materials (like glass and tar) do not crystallise at all but form super stiff fluids, which seem to be solid. Only Helium will not freeze; all other substances will freeze if cold enough, but fluids like cooking oil, anti-freeze, petrol (gasoline), nitrogen, etc. freeze at temperatures that most people will rarely, if ever, experience. Dry ice. There is also 'dry ice'; it is frozen carbon dioxide. Dry ice exposed to normal air gives off carbon dioxide gas that is odorless and colorless. The gas is so cold that when it mixes with air it cools the water vapour in the air to fog, which looks like a thick white smoke. It is often used in the theatre to create the appearance of fog or smoke.  
Travel	Travel is the activity going from one place to another location. When a person makes the same trip every day to work or school, this type of travelling is usually called "commuting." Some people travel to other cities as part of their job. This is called "business travel." Some people travel on their vacation, to visit other towns, cities, or countries. These people stay overnight in hotels, hostels, motels, apartments or bed and breakfast or perhaps in a tent - then they are campers. Some people write about traveling in books called autobiographies or journals.  
CNN	Cable News Network (CNN) is a national news service on television in the United States of America. It was started by Ted Turner and its headquarters are in Atlanta, Georgia. It is one of the most watched networks in the United States. It was the first network to air news 24 hours a day.  
Leader	A leader is someone who has the authority to tell a group of people what do to. A leader can also represent a group of people. For example, the Prime Minister of Canada has the authority to govern the society of Canada and represent the people of Canada. A leader can also mean the leader (first violinist) of an orchestra.  
Blackboard	A blackboard, also called a chalkboard, is a surface on which markings made with chalk are visible. It is used as a surface to write on. Blackboards are often used to help teach in school. Blackboards are not used as much now. People use whiteboards instead. Whiteboards are used because some people are allergic to the dust the chalk used to write on chalkboards generate, and because the dust is hard to clean up when spilled. Chalkboards are written on with chalk, which is actually not the stone chalk at all. It is actually made by factories. Schoolteachers often use the chalkboard to display things at large. Chalkboards can be black or dark green, also called blackboards and greenboards.  
Linux	Linux or GNU/Linux is an open source operating system for computers. The operating system is a collection of the basic instructions that tell the electronic parts of the computer what to do and how to work. "Open source" means that everyone can see how it works and change it if they want to. This is different from "closed source," which is software that makes it hard to change or see how it works. Windows is an example of a "closed source" operating system. A lot of the important software made for computers is made for Windows because it is more popular. There is a lot of different software for Linux and since Linux is open source it means that most of the software for it is open source too, and free. This is one of the main reasons why some people like to use Linux more than Windows. How Linux was made. In the 1980s, many people liked to use an operating system called Unix. But because they had to pay to use it, some people tried to write a new operating system that would work like Unix but would be open source. A group of people called the GNU project wrote many different parts of a new operating system (GNU), but there was nothing that brought it all together. In 1991, Linus Torvalds began to work on a non-commercial replacement for MINIX as he was unhappy with it, while he was attending the University of Helsinki. This eventually became the Linux kernel. Linus then shared the Linux kernel on Minix's user groups. Linus first named the OS "Freax" for "free" and "freak", using an X because it is popular in naming projects that are like Unix. Ari Lemmke, Torvald's coworker at the University who was responsible for the servers at the time, did not feel Freax was a good name. So, he called the project "Linux" without asking Torvalds. After a while later, Linus Torvalds finally agreed that Linux was the better name. Linux relied on MINIX at first. With code from the GNU system freely available, it would be good for Linux if they could create an operating system together with the code combined. Code licensed under the GNU GPL can be used in other projects, as long as they also are released under the same or a similar license. In order to make the Linux kernel suitable for use with the code from the GNU Project, Linus Torvalds started a switch from his original license (which did not allow people to sell it) to the GNU GPL. Linux and GNU developers worked together to integrate GNU code with Linux to make a free operating system. Because of the way that the new operating system was created by combining the work of the GNU project and Linus Torvalds, many people say that it's better to use the name Linux, but most people just say "Linux". Since then, thousands of programmers and companies have worked to make Linux better. Tux the penguin. The mascot of Linux is a cartoon penguin named "Tux". When a person sees the penguin on software and hardware, it means that it will work with Linux, and sometimes all systems that are like Unix. The idea of the penguin came from the creator of Linux, Linus Torvalds. The image was made by a man named Larry Ewing in a competition to create a logo. The image, Tux, did not win, but it was picked as a mascot later. Tux has now become a symbol for Linux, and sometimes even for open source. He can be seen in many different places and often, when people refer to Linux, they think about Tux. Tux has even been included in many video games, such as Super Tux (like Super Mario Bros.), Tux Racer (where players race Tux down an icy hill) and Pingus (like Lemmings). Desktop. Although there are only a few Linux versions for some Mac OS X and Microsoft Windows programs in areas like desktop publishing and professional audio, there are programs that are better or around the same in quality compared to those available for Mac and Windows. Many free software titles that are popular on Windows, such as Pidgin, Mozilla Firefox, Openoffice.org, and GIMP, are available for Linux. A growing amount of proprietary desktop software can also be used under Linux, such as Adobe Flash Player, Opera, Google Picasa, RealPlayer, and Skype. CrossOver is a proprietary solution based on the open source Wine project that supports running older Windows versions of Microsoft Office and Adobe Photoshop versions until CS2. Microsoft Office 2007 and Adobe Photoshop CS3 are known not to work. The performance of Linux on the desktop has been a topic discussed by many people, with at least one very important Linux kernel developer, Con Kolivas, saying that the Linux community prefers performance on servers rather than on desktops. He quit Linux development because he did not like this, and then gave a 'tell all' interview on the topic. Servers and supercomputers. Linux has mainly been used as a server operating system, and has risen to be known by a lot of people in that area; Netcraft reported in February 2008 that five of the ten best internet hosting companies run Linux on their web servers. This is because of its stability and uptime, and the fact that desktop software with a graphical user interface for servers is often unneeded. Linux is commonly used as an operating system for supercomputers. As of November 2007, out of the top 500 systems, 426 (85.2%) run Linux. Pronunciation. Torvalds has made available an audio sample which indicates his own pronunciation, in English and Swedish. Many English speakers usually pronounce the name as lee-narks or l-ee-nix. Code size. A 2001 study of Red Hat Linux 7.1 found that this distribution contained 30 million lines of code. According to the study the distribution required about eight thousand man-years of development time. According to the study, if all this software had been developed by proprietary means, it would have cost about 1.08 billion dollars (year 2000 U.S. dollars) to develop in the United States. Most of the code (71%) was written in the C programming language, but many other languages were used, including C++, assembly language, Perl, Python, Fortran, and various shell scripting languages. Slightly over half of all lines of code were licensed under the GPL. The Linux kernel was made up of 2.4 million lines of code, or 8% of the total. Linux distributions and software. People may have to pay a small amount for a distribution, to pay for the CD-ROM and to help the company to make their distribution better. In most cases where people have to pay, they are paying for the company to help the user after they install it, which is known as "support". Licensing, trademark, and naming. The Linux kernel and most GNU software are licensed under the GNU General Public License (GPL). The GPL requires that anyone who distributes the Linux kernel must make the source code (and any modifications) available to the recipient under the same terms. In 1997, Linus Torvalds said, “Making Linux GPL'd was definitely the best thing I ever did.” Other key components of a Linux system may use other licenses; many libraries use the GNU Lesser General Public License (LGPL), a type of the GPL that is less restricted, and the X Window System uses the MIT License.  
Open source	Open source software is software where the source code--the language programmers use to make computers do their jobs--is available to everyone. Anyone can see how the code works and can change it if they want to make it work differently. The opposite of open source is closed source, where the source is not available to everyone. Open Source is almost the same thing as Free software, but people who know the difference between the names choose between them because of different reasons. Open Source and Free software have been around for decades, but they became popular with Linux and BSD software communities. To protect the code, a special license is used. The most common kinds of licence are the GPL, BSD and LGPL. Wikipedia uses open source too. The Open Source Movement is led by the. The open source movement split off from the Free software movement in 1998. The Free Software movement is led by the.  
Desktop environment	A desktop environment is a group of software that allows the user to use a computer easily. The most common desktop environment on personal computers is the one given by Microsoft Windows; another common environment is the one given by Apple Mac OS X. Other mostly-used desktop environments for Unix-like operating systems using the X Window System are KDE, GNOME, Xfce. There are also other desktop environments, including: Aston, EDE, GEM, IRIX Interactive Desktop, Sun's Java Desktop System, Mezzo, Project Looking Glass, ROX Desktop, UDE, Xito, XFast.  
OpenOffice.org	OpenOffice.org is a free open source office suite made by Sun Microsystems and the free software community. It is available for many different operating systems, including Microsoft Windows, Linux, OS X, FreeBSD and Solaris; and is meant to be an alternative to Microsoft Office. It supports Microsoft Office file formats as well as its own OpenDocument format. The ".org" part of the name OpenOffice.org is there because OpenOffice is already trademarked. It is often called "OOo" for short. OpenOffice.org is based on the older StarOffice software that was created by Sun Microsystems.  
Download	Download means getting information from another computer or server. The opposite of downloading is uploading, which is sending data to another computer. Usually we do not say "download" for a single web page (for example when you open this page on your computer). When we say we downloaded something, it is normally a bigger piece of information, like data or a computer program. The word downloadable means the ability to get information or data from a primary source for one's use. The source is expected to be authentic and patent. At the user's end, the downloaded information or data are to be used based on agreement notice. In the 21st century, it is very easy to download information from the internet. Many people make the mistake of downloading illegal files from the internet.  
GNOME	GNOME is a computer desktop environment. It was designed for GNU/Linux, but many other operating systems can use it too. GNOME aims to provide an easy way to use a computer. GNOME is a free software project. It was made because people were questioning whether KDE is free. Some people think that GNOME is better than KDE because it is more easy to use GNOME compared to KDE. But, some people also think that KDE is better than GNOME because KDE looks better. GNOME is part of the GNU project.  
Dog	A dog ("Canis lupus familiaris") is a mammal from the family Canidae. It has been domesticated by humans for a long time. Dogs are used by humans for many different things, for work and as pets. It can be a pet, because it is usually friendly and listens to humans. Dogs are usually said to be ` Mans Best Friend `. They are sometimes called "canines" from the Latin word for dog - "canis". Sometimes people also use "dog" to refer to other canids, such as wolves. A baby dog is called a pup or puppy. A dog is called a puppy until it is about one year old. Children may call dogs "doggies". Dogs are sometimes referred to as "man's best friend" because they are kept as domestic pets and are usually loyal and like being around humans. Appearance and behaviour. Dogs can smell and hear very well, but can not see well in colour or they are colour blind. Dogs can hear from a distance of 5000 or more meters away. The usual life span of a dog from pup to an adult is about 10 years or more. The size and the breed of the dog may change how long the dog lives. Smaller dog breeds usually live longer. Like wolves, wild dogs travel in groups called packs. Packs of dogs are ordered by rank, and dogs with low rank will submit to other dogs with higher rank. The highest ranked dog is called the alpha male. A dog in a group helps and cares about others. Domesticated dogs often view their owner as the alpha male. Dogs and humans. Dogs have lived with people for at least 14,000 years. Dogs can serve people in many ways. They are often called "man's best friend". For example, there are guard dogs, hunting dogs, herding dogs, and guide dogs for blind people. There are also dogs that are trained to smell for diseases in the human body or to find bombs or illegal drugs. These dogs sometimes assist policemen in airports or other areas. Sniffer dogs (usually beagles) are sometimes trained for this job. Dogs have even been sent by Russians into outer space, a few years before any human being. Dog breeds. There are at least 800 breeds (kinds) of dogs. Dogs whose parents were the same breed will also be that breed: these dogs are called purebred or pure pedigree dogs. Dogs with parents from different breeds no longer belong to one breed: they are called "mutts", "mixed-breed dogs", "hybrids", or "mongrels". Some of the most popular breeds are sheepdogs, collies, poodles and retrievers. It is becoming popular to be breed two different breeds of dogs and calling the new dog's breed a name that is a mixture of the parents' breeds' two names. A puppy with a poodle and a pomeranian as parents might be called a Pomapoo. These kinds of dogs, instead of being called mutts, are known as designer breeds. These dogs are often bred for show, or prize winnings.  
Blindness	Blindness is the inability to see anything. Some people are called blind, even though they can see a little bit. This is because they cannot see clearly, but only see fuzzy shapes or colours. In modern countries, few young people are blind. In all the world, blindness is mostly caused by malnutrition and diseases of old people, like cataracts and trachoma. People can become blind because of diseases or accidents, but sometimes people are born blind. Some people are "color blind", which means they can see, but cannot tell certain colours apart. When people are blind they use such things as the alphabet in "braille" and "guide dogs" to do every day life things. There are many famous blind people such as Louis Braille, the inventor of the braille alphabet.  
Arctic	The Arctic is the area around the Earth's North Pole. The Arctic includes parts of Russia, Alaska, Canada, Greenland, Lapland and Svalbard as well as the Arctic Ocean. It is technically an ocean, but it is always frozen, so it is solid ice. During summer, the Sun never sets in the Arctic. This is because during summer there, the North Pole points toward the Sun. So, sometimes people call it the Land of the Midnight Sun. The word comes from the Greek word "αρκτος", meaning "bear". The North Pole aims at the stars called the Great Bear and the Little Bear. This is why it is called the Arctic.  
Sin	A sin is something that a religion tells its believers is a bad thing to do. Religions that believe in God usually say that God told them that some things are sins. Usually the sacred books of a religion talk about sins. There are some things that most religions agree are sins. For example, almost every religion agrees that it is wrong to kill people (murder). There are other things that are sins in only a few religions. For example, Muslims and Jews say that it is wrong to eat pork, but other religions do not think that it's wrong to eat this. Some people are not religious. They say that people should try to do the things that help other people, and not to do the things that hurt other people. People who are not religious do not usually say that the things that hurt other people are "sins", but sometimes they use this word for these things. Most religions describe "sins" as actions that break their rules.  
Summer	Summer is one of four seasons. It is the hottest and one of the most dry seasons of the year. Four seasons are found in areas which are not too hot or too cold. Summer happens to the north and south sides of the Earth at opposite times of the year. In the Northern Hemisphere, summer takes place between the months of June and September and in the Southern Hemisphere, it takes place between December and March. This is because when the Northern Hemisphere, or part, of the Earth points towards the Sun, the Southern Hemisphere points away.  
Month	A month is an amount of time used with calendars. It is about one twelfth of a year. It is a little longer than a natural period of the moon 29.53 days. In some cultures, the idea for months came from moon phases. People have counted days based on moon phases for a very long time. Some calendars are still strongly based on the moon, or "lunar calendars". Others, called "solar calendars", ignore the moon, and depend entirely on the Sun — for example, the Gregorian calendar of 365 or 366 days (twelve months) used in much of the world today.  
Alberta	Alberta is a province in Canada. It lies in the western part of Canada. The province of British Columbia is west of Alberta. The province of Saskatchewan is east of Alberta. It is north of Montana, one of the states in the United States. Alberta is the fourth largest Canadian province. It has an area of 642,317 km². Alberta has 3,305,800 people. There are three provinces in Canada that have more people. The capital of Alberta is Edmonton. Edmonton is close to the middle of Alberta. Calgary is another city in Alberta. It is south of Edmonton. Working in Alberta. Alberta has a lot of oil and natural gas. It is hard to find a job in Alberta because there is a lot of people there, because they all want the oil There are also a lot of farms in Alberta. Farmers grow wheat and other things. There are also a lot of cows on Alberta farms. Alberta Weather. Some of Alberta gets a lot of snow in the winter. Alberta can be very cold in the winter. There is a dry part of Alberta in the south. Alberta History. Alberta was made a province of Canada in 1905.  
Electronics	Electronics is the study and use of electrical components and circuits to achieve a design goal. The main parts, or electronic components, used in electronics are resistors, capacitors, coils of wire called inductors, integrated circuits, connection wires, and circuit boards. Older electronics used glass or metal vacuum tubes to control the flow of electrons. By the late 1960's and early 1970's the transistor, a semiconductor, began replacing vacuum tubes as control parts. At about the same time, integrated circuits (miniature semiconductor circuits containing large numbers of very small transistors put on on very thin slices of silicon) came into general use. Integrated circuits not only made it possible to significantly reduce the number of components needed to make electronic products, but also made them much more reliable and at a lower cost. People interested in physics often study how and why these electronic components work. By their studies they are able to discover, invent, or improve electronic components. Other people design and construct electronic circuits, using these components, to solve practical problems. These people are a part of electrical, electronics and computer engineering field. Take as an example a television set. A television set's input is a broadcast signal received from an antenna, or a wire cable provided by a cable television vendor. Signal processing circuits inside the television set use the brightness, colour, and sound information contained in the received signal to control the television set's output devices. The display output device may be a cathode ray tube (CRT) or a plasma or liquid crystal display screen. The audio output device might be a magnetically driven audio speaker. The display output devices convert the signal processing circuits' brightness and colour information into the visible image displayed on a screen. The audio output device converts the processed sound information into sounds that can be heard by listeners. Analysis of a circuit/network involves knowing the input and the signal processing circuit, and finding out the output. Knowing the input and output and finding out or designing the signal processing part is called as synthesis. Analog circuits. Analog circuits are used for signals that have a range of amplitudes.  In general, analog circuits measure or control the amplitude of signals.  In the early days of electronics, all electronic devices used analog circuits for signal processing and control. Pulse circuits. Pulse circuits are used for signals that require rapid pulses of energy.  For example, aircraft and ground radar equipment work by using pulse circuits to create and send high powered bursts of radio energy from radar transmitters.  Special antennas (called "beam" or "dish" antennas because of their shape) are used to send ("transmit") the high powered bursts in the direction the beam or dish antenna is pointed. The radar transmitter's pulses or bursts of radio energy hit and bounce back (they are "reflected") from hard and metallic objects.  Hard objects are things like buildings, hills, and mountains.  Metallic objects are anything made of metal, like aircraft, bridges, satellites, or even objects in space.  The reflected radar energy is detected by radar pulse receivers which use both pulse and digital circuits together.  The pulse and digital circuits in radar pulse receivers are used to show the location and distance of objects which have reflected the radar transmitter's high powered pulses. By controlling how often the rapid pulses of radar energy are sent out by a radar transmitter (called the transmitter's "pulse timing"), and how long it takes for the reflected pulse energy to come back to the radar receiver, one can tell not only where objects are, but also how far away they are.   Digital circuits in a radar receiver calculate the distance to an object by knowing the time interval between energy pulses.   The radar receiver's digital circuits count how long it takes between pulses for an object's reflected energy to be detected by the radar receiver.  Since radar pulses are sent and received at approximately the speed of light, the distance to an object can easily be calculated.  This is done in digital circuits by dividing the speed of light by the time it takes to receive the radar energy reflected back from an object. The time between pulses (often called "pulse rate time", or PRT) sets the limit on how far away an object can be detected.  That distance is called the "range" of a radar transmitter and receiver.  Radar transmitters and receivers use long PRT's to find the distance to objects that are far away.  Long PRT's makes it possible to accurately determine the distance to the moon, for example.  Fast PRT's are used to detect objects that are much closer, like ships at sea, high flying aircraft, or to determine the speed of fast moving automobiles on highways. Digital circuits. Digital circuits are used for signals that repeatedly turn on and off.  Active components in digital circuits typically have a constant amplitude when turned on, and zero amplitude when turned off.  In general, digital circuits count the number of times a component is switched on and off.  Computers and electronic clocks are examples of electronic devices that are made up of mostly digital circuits.  
Scalar	Scalars are simple numbers.They are used for measuring things. Many things can be measured, and the measure can be explained by only giving the number. Suppose we are measuring a rod. We could give the measured length as 2 metres or 3 cm etc. depending on the length of the rod under observation. Here only the figure 2 or 3 along with the unit of measure is enough to transmit information about the rod. i.e. mass is measured by scalars, distances are measured by scalars. The other family of measurement falls under the category of vectors.  
Photon	Photons (from Greek φως, meaning "light"), in many atomic models in physics, are particles which transmit light. In other words, light is carried over space by photons. Photons have a rest mass 0 (zero). They have mass because of Einstein's theory of relativity. At the speed of light photons do have certain mass. A photon is usually given the symbol γ (gamma), Properties. Photons are fundamental particles. Although they can be created and destroyed, their lifetime is infinite. As photons have energy, they are affected by gravity. In a vacuum, all photons move at the speed of light, c, which is equal to 299,792,458 meters (approximately 300,000 kilometers) per second. A photon has a given wavelength, which determines its color. Even beyond the visible range, wavelength is the only thing different between X-Ray photons, and warm infrared. The last usable property of a photon is its polarity. If you saw a giant photon coming straight at you, it could appear as a swath whipping vertically, horizontally, or somewhere in between. Polarized sunglasses stop photons swinging up and down from passing. This is how they reduce glare as light bouncing off of surfaces tend to fly that way. LCD screens also use polarity to control which light passes through. Even some animals can see light polarization. Finally, light has a spin to it. A photon's spin is a subtle feature, and requires expensive equipment to detect. Photon spin may become the ones and zeros of tomorrow's supercomputers.  
Vector	A vector is a mathematical object that has a size and direction. A vector can be used to show distance and direction. Vectors can be used to show how fast something is moving and in what direction. Vectors can also be used to show many other things. The simplest picture of a vector is a line segment, with a starting point and an ending point. Examples of nonvectors. Sometimes, only a number for the size is needed. However, the direction is also needed sometimes.  
Soap bubble	A soap bubble is a very thin film of soap water. Their shape is a hollow, round ball, or sphere. They have a colorful surface. Soap bubbles do not last very long. Sometimes they break in the air. When they touch something else, they usually break. When people talk about soap bubbles they think about them being pretty, but short-lived. So, they are a symbol for other things that are pretty, but short-lived or unimportant. Children enjoy playing with bubbles. Sometimes, adults enjoy seeing art done with soap bubbles. Soap bubbles solve some mathematical problems. The problems they solve are problems of filling space. Bubbles enclose the largest space with the least surface.  
Fire Brigades Union	The Fire Brigades Union (FBU) is the main union for firefighters in the United Kingdom. A union is a group of workers. They make the group to improve pay and working conditions. It was founded in 1918 in the London area as the "Firemans Trade Union". It soon grew to cover the entire country. Today, it has around 50,000 members.  
Force	The word force means "to make someone or something do something". For example, "Soldiers came to the town and forced all the people there to leave." Scientists also use the word "force". In the science of physics, a force causes objects to accelerate (change the way they are moving). When equal forces act in opposite directions, they cancel each other out. Gravity is a force. It makes things move toward each other. On the Earth, we see that it makes things fall toward the ground.  
Bicycle	A bicycle, or bike, is a small land vehicle with two wheels, pedals, and a metal chain connected to cogs on the pedals and rear wheel. The name comes from these two wheels - the prefix "bi-" meaning two, and the suffix "-cycle" meaning wheel. It is powered by a person riding on top, who pushes the pedals around with his or her feet. Cycling or riding bicycles is an important way to travel in several parts of the world. It is also a common recreation, a good form of low-impact exercise, and a popular sport. It is also the second most popular spectator sport in the world. Bicycling uses less energy per mile than any other human transport. Invention. In 1818 a German professor, baron Karl von Drais, created the first two wheeled bicycle. It had a handlebar, and looked like a bicycle of today, but it didn`t have pedals, and it had a wooden body. Mountain Bicycle. The mountain bicycle is used for the ride on the impassable road. It has many speeds (usually more then 20), some wide tires, powerful wheels. Urban Bicycle. The Urban bicycle is used for the convenient ride around the city. It`s comfortable but it has a slow speed. It has a convenient seat but a heavy body. It has a good protection from the mud. Woman’s Bicycle. The general difference between the woman bicycle and the man`s is the location of the top tube. When the women began to ride on a bike, they wore a long skirts. They must to raise a foot, to sit on the bicycle. The manufactures of bicycles changed the location of the top tube. Now the woman bicycles made, so that the women can sat down on them in the skirt Tandem Bicycle. The tandem is a bicycle for 2 people. It has two pairs of pedal. The cyclists sit one behind another. The first cyclist steers a bicycle. There are bicycles for 3 and more people. There was a bicycle for 40 people. Electric Bicycle. Titanium Flat Road EB has an electric motor. One charge allows the distance 10 km. (6 miles). You can charge it at home. You can use only engine, or only pedals or both together.  
Wheel	A wheel is a disc- or circle-shaped mechanical device. Its main purpose is to allow things to "roll"; in other words, the wheel spins, and objects on the wheels move more easily along the ground. It is a simple machine. History. Most experts believe the ancient Mesopotamians invented the wheel about 4000 BC. In addition, the Chinese discovered it on their own around 2800 BC. The Inca and Maya had wheels on children's toys around 1500 BC, but they did not use wheels for work. Africa south of the Sahara desert and Australia did not have the wheel until people there met people from other cultures.  
Exercise	Physical exercise. Exercise can be an important part of physical therapy, weight loss, or sports performance. Exercise can be fun, but it is important for the exercisor to do what he likes and eat enough calories, so when he exercises he is building up muscles, not just breaking them down for fuel. Carbohydrates are muscle-sparing; and if one does not get enough calories overall, there is the risk of burning muscles up with the fat to make up the deficit. Exercise benefits. Regular exercise has been shown to help high blood pressure, obesity, heart disease, diabetes, and depression, among others.  
Percent	Percent means "out of one hundred". It is often shown with the symbol "%". It is used even if there are not a hundred items. The number is then scaled so it can be compared to one hundred. For instance, four hot lesbians are rubbing and spanking in bed, three of them are white and one is black. The percentage of white lesbians is 3 out of 4 = 3/4 = 75/100 = 75%. Uses. Percentages are useful because people can compare things that aren't out of the same number. For example, exam marks are often percentages, so people can compare them even if there are more questions on one exam paper than the other.  
Writing	Writing is the act of recording information on a medium so that it may be read by others or at a later time. The medium is usually paper, though other permanent media, such as cloth and clay can be used. Temporary media such as television and movie screens can also be used to display writing. Writing is often done using a hand tool such as a pencil, a pen, or a brush, but more and more, text is being created by computer printers under the control of a computer application. In the earliest times, writing was usually a set of pictures, which stood for words or ideas. The Egyptians used this kind of method in their invention of hieroglyphs. Chinese use the same idea today, where a character stands for a thing rather than a sound. A people known as the Sumerians, who lived in a part of the world now occupied by Iraq and its neighbors, developed a form of writing called cuneiform. Marks pressed into soft clay stood for sounds; after the clay had dried, it could be carried elsewhere for others to read. Cuneiform was also used to create messages on soft rock, leather, and papyrus. About 4000 years ago, the first alphabet began to appear. It is only in the last few hundred years that most people have been able to write and to read. Until then, education was only for the wealthy or powerful, and because each book had to be created by hand, there were very few books available compared to the billions in the world today.  
Rock	Rock is used to mean many things.  
Plato	Plato was a very important classical Greek philosopher. He lived from 427 BC to 347 BC. He was a student of Socrates and the teacher of Aristotle. Plato wrote about many ideas in philosophy that are still talked about today. In fact, one modern philosopher (Alfred North Whitehead) said that all philosophy since Plato was just comments on his works. Plato wrote his books in the form of dialogues -- people talking about ideas, and sometimes disagreeing about them. This makes Plato's books more interesting to read. Socrates is usually the main person in Plato's dialogues. Usually, Socrates talks with people about their ideas, and tries to see if they believe anything that is illogical. Other people in the stories often become angry with Socrates because of this! People who study Plato argue about whether Socrates really said the same things that Plato makes him say, or whether Plato just used Socrates as a character, to make the ideas he was talking about seem more important. One of Plato's most famous works is "The Republic" (In Greek, "Politeia," or 'city'). In that work, he describes Socrates's vision of an "ideal" state. The method of questioning in this dialogue, called the Socratic method, is as important as the content. The Republic contains ideas of Socrates: "Socrates said it, Plato wrote it." Works by Plato. We have many dialogues that were supposed to be written by Plato. But because he was such a famous philosopher, some later philosophers said that their works were really written by him, to make their works seem more important. In the list on this page, a work is marked (1) if scholars are not sure that Plato really wrote it, and it is marked (2) if scholars generally agree that Plato did "not" really write it.  
Book	A book is a collection of papers held together between two covers to keep the papers inside safe. "Hardcover" books have hard covers made of cardboard covered in cloth or leather and are usually sewn together. "Paperback" books have covers of stiff paper and are usually glued together. Books can also be read aloud and recorded on tapes and compact discs. These books are called audiobooks. Books can be borrowed from a library or bought from a bookstore. People can make their own books and fill them with family photos, drawings, or their own writing. Some books are empty inside, like a diary, address book, or photo album. Most of the time, the word "book" means that the pages inside have words printed or written on them. Books can be about any subject. Some books are written just for children, or for entertainment, while other books are for studying something in school such as math or history. Many books have photographs or drawings. People who cannot read books are called illiterate. Types of books. There are two main kinds of book: fiction and non-fiction. Fiction. These books are about stories that did not happen, and have been imagined by the author. Some books are based on real events from history, but the author has created imaginary characters or dialogue for the events. Non-fiction. Books of non-fiction are about true facts or things that really happened. Some examples are dictionaries, cookbooks, textbooks for learning in school, or a biography (someone's life story). Historical. The first kind of book was a scroll, a long sheet rolled up. The sheet could have been made of papyrus (made by the Egyptians, by weaving the inner stems of the papyrus plant and then hammering them together), or parchment or vellum (very thin animal skin, first used by the ancient Greeks), or the kind of paper we use today (made from plant fibers and pulp, invented by the ancient Chinese). The Romans were the first people to put flat pieces of paper between a cover, which they called a "codex". Scrolls and codexes were all written by hand. The Chinese invented "woodblock printing", where shapes are carved out of a block of wood, then ink is applied to the carved side, and the block is pressed onto the paper. This way of making books was very slow, and so very few people had these kinds of books. Johannes Gutenberg was the first European to invent the printing press, a machine that can print many pages quickly. With the printing press, books become much easier to make and cost much less money to make, so more people could have books.  
Sundial	A sundial shows the current solar time during the day. It does this because the sun appears to move through the sky. At different times in the day when the sun is shining, a shadow is cast in different places on the dial. A person marks the dial with the time at a certain shadow. This lets users easily see the time. There are a few commonly seen designs, such as the 'ordinary' or standard garden sundial. However, sundials can be designed for any surface where a fixed object casts a predictable shadow. Ancient Egypt had sundials. Other cultures developed them further, including the Greeks and Romans.  
Peninsula	A peninsula is a region of land that sticks out in a body of water. It is also defined as a piece of land with water on three sides. Korea, and most of the U.S. state of Florida, are peninsulas. If Eurasia is considered a continent then the continent of Europe is technically a peninsula.  
Derivative	A derivative is something created from a primary source, and can mean different things.  
Combinatorial game theory	Combinatorial game theory is a mathematical theory of games. It is sometimes called CGT. It is part of general game theory. It came from ideas from the solution to the game of Nim. It also partly came from looking at the oriental game Go. Very few of the games that people play for fun meet these conditions. For example, chess has draws. These combinatorial games can be represented by trees, each vertice of which is the game resulting from a particular move from the game directly below it on the tree. These games can be assigned game values. Finding these game values is of great interests to CG theorists, as is the theoretical concept of game addition. The sum of two games is the game in which each player on her/his turn must move in only one of the two games, leaving the other as it was. Elwyn Berlekamp, John Conway and Richard Guy are the founders of the theory. They worked together in the 1960s. Their published work was called "Winning Ways for Your Mathematical Plays". Definitions. In the theory, there are two players called "left" and "right". A game is something that allows left and right to make moves to "other games". For example, in the game of chess, there is a usual starting setup. One could also, however, think of a chess game after the first move as a different game, with a different setup. So each position is also called a game. Games have the notation. formula_1 are the games the left player can move to. formula_2 are the games the right player can move to. If you know chess notation, then the usual chess setup is the game The dots "..." mean there are many moves, so not all are shown. The easiest game of Nim starts with no counters at all! In such a case, neither player can move. That is shown as. Both sides are empty, because neither player can move. The first player to go cannot move, and so will lose. In CGT, people often write as the symbol 0 (zero). The next-easiest game has only one pile, with just one counter. If the left player goes first, that player must take the counter, leaving right with no moves (, or 0). If instead right moves first, there will be no more moves for left. So both left and right can make a move to 0. That is shown as |, or. The first player to move will win. Games equal to are very important. They are written with the symbol, * (star).  
Nim	There is a simple mathematical strategy to play the game perfectly. If both players play perfectly, the winner is determined by the initial setup.  
Blue	Blue is one of the colors of the rainbow that people can see. It is one of the three traditional primary colors, along with red and yellow. It has the shortest wavelength of these colors (about 470 nanometers). Blue is the color of the earth's sky and sea. Earth looks blue when viewed from outer space by astronauts. Blue is the color of a "bluebird". Meaning of blue. Blue is often associated with depth and stability. It symbolizes trust, loyalty, wisdom, confidence, intelligence, faith, truth, and heaven. Blue is considered beneficial to the mind and body. It slows human metabolism and produces a calming effect. Blue is strongly associated with tranquility and calmness. In heraldry, blue is used to symbolize piety and sincerity. Blue is a masculine color; according to studies, it is highly accepted among males. Dark blue is associated with depth, expertise, and stability; it is a preferred color for corporate America. Light blue is associated with health, healing, tranquility, understanding, and softness. Dark blue represents knowledge, power, integrity, and seriousness.  
Murder	Murder is when one person kills another person on purpose. It is only called "murder" when it is against the law. If a person does something that makes someone else die, it is often known as manslaughter or homicide. This is especially true if it was an accident. Sometimes, a death caused by someone else may not be a crime. For example, in some countries, it is not a crime to defend yourself, even if it kills the attacker. The legal definition of "murder" and "manslaughter" may be different in different countries, and is very much debated: for example, killing in war is not usually called "murder" by those who take place in the war, whatever the reasons for the war are. Killing in self defense (if people being attacked kill someone who is attacking them) is often not called "murder". In biblical religions, the first murder was supposed to have been Cain killing his brother Abel. Assassination. "Assassination" is a word which means murdering someone as a job. The word is most used when the person who was killed was a famous celebrity or was a person involved in politics. The people who carry out assassinations are called "assassins". An assassin may murder someone for political reasons, for money, or for other reasons, such as favors owed. The word "Assassin" comes from Hashshashin, a Muslim group, active in the Middle East from the 8th to the 14th centuries. This secret society killed people for political and religious reasons. It is thought that the assassins were under the influence of hashish and opium during their killings or during their training. The word "assassin" comes from either "hasishin", the influence of the drugs, or "hassansin", after their leader, Hassan-i Sabbah. The first use of the word "assassination" in a book is " The Tragedy of Macbeth" by William Shakespeare (1605).  
Bird	Birds are a group among the animals called vertebrates or animals with backbones. They form the class "Aves". They are warm-blooded and they lay eggs. They are covered with feathers and they have wings. Their bones are hollow. This makes them lighter and allows many of them to fly. Birds have two legs usually covered with scales (small, flat hard plates which over-lap in the same way as feathers). They have a hard beak with no teeth. Because birds have a high temperature and use lots of energy, they need to eat a lot of food, compared with their weight. More than 9000 different species (kinds) of birds are known. Birds are found on every continent of the world. Different types of birds have made "adaptations" or changes so it is possible for some birds to live in freezing cold environments while other birds live in hot deserts. Birds can live in forests, in grasslands, on cliff faces, in river banks, on stony sea shores, down mine shafts and in the roofs of houses. Bird are also "adapted" to eat different foods. Many birds live on seeds and fruit. Some birds eat green plants. Some birds live on the nectar or honey in flowers. Other birds live on insects. Some birds eat fish. Some eat small reptiles and mice. Birds of prey eat mammals and other birds. Some birds are scavengers and eat the bodies of creatures that have died. Birds come in many sizes from the Bee Hummingbird that is only 60mm long to the ostrich which stands 2.5 metres high. The bird with the widest wingspan is the Wandering Albatross many of which measure 3 metres from tip to tip. Different shapes. Because birds live on every continent and have adapted to all sorts of conditions, different types of birds look very different from each other. The most noticeable differences are the size, the shape of the beak, the length of the legs, the length of the neck and the colour. The smallest types of birds are tiny birds that feed on nectar, honey and insects. The biggest birds are flightless birds with long legs-- ostriches, emus and cassowaries. However, very large birds are also found soaring high in the sky-- eagles, vultures, albatross and pelicans. The way to understand the living habits of a bird is to look at its legs and feet, its beak, its neck and its wings. If a bird has very long legs, then it probably spends most of its time walking, like a crane, or wading (walking in water), like a flamingo. Birds with long legs need long necks to match, so they can reach their food. Birds with short legs and long necks like pelicans, geese and swans are birds that swim well and dive their heads into the water for food. Their beaks are often flat for scooping up water weeds. A pelican's beak can change into a shape like a huge bucket for catching fish. Birds that are shaped like torpedoes are good at diving. Albatross, seagulls and kingfishers all have long strong beaks for catching fish. Some birds, such as eagles, owls vultures and hawks, have beaks which are hooked and very large claws (also called "talons") with which they can tear and carry meat. Some birds have very long thin beaks that they use for dipping into flowers or poking into holes in the ground. These include humming birds, bee eaters and avocets. Some birds have short beaks but wide mouths that are perfect for catching insects in the air, like swallows, swifts and nightjars. Some birds that eat fruit, like toucans and hornbills, have beaks which are enormous, but are very light in weight. The curved beaks of parrots are good for eating large seeds and cracking nuts, while birds that peck small seeds and food from the ground have short beaks like pigeons. Different colours. Birds come in a huge range of colours. These colours can be useful to a bird in two ways. The colours can either help to hide the bird, or they can help to attract attention to the bird when it is looking for a mate. Bird Camouflage. Many birds are brown, green or grey. These colours make a bird harder see; they camouflage the bird. Brown is the most common colour. Brown birds include sparrows, emus, thrushes, larks, eagles, falcons and the female birds of many species such as wrens, ducks, blackbirds and peacocks. When a brown bird is in long grass or among tree trunks or rocks, it is "camouflaged". Birds that live in long grass often have brown feathers streaked with black which looks like shadows. A Bittern is almost invisible in long reeds. Other birds, including starlings and minahs, are quite dark in colour, but are flecked with little spots that look like raindrops on leaves. Many birds from hot countries are green or have some green feathers, particularly parrots. Birds that live in green trees often have green backs, even if they have bright-coloured breasts. From the back, the birds are "camouflaged". This is very useful when sitting on a nest. The bird's bright-coloured breast is hidden. Budgerigiars are bred in different colours such as blue, white and mauve, but in the wild, they are nearly all green and yellow. Even though they fly very well, they normally spend a lot of time on the ground, eating grass seeds. Their yellow and black stiped back helps to hide them in the shadows made by long dry grass, while their green breasts are a similar colour to the leaves of gum trees. Grey birds include most pigeons and doves, cranes, storks and herons. Grey birds are often rock-living birds like pigeons, or birds that sit on dead tree trunks looking like a broken branch. Water birds like herons often have a pale grey colour which makes it harder for a fish to notice that the bird is standing, looking down for something to catch. Water birds, no matter what colour they are on top, are often white underneath, so that when a fish looks up, the bird looks like part of the sky. Black birds include crows, ravens and male blackbirds. Some birds that are dark colours spend quite a lot of time on the ground, hopping around in the shadows under bushes. Among these birds are the male blackbird and the satin bowerbird which is not black but very dark blue. Crows and ravens often perch high on bare trees in the winter, where their black shape against the sky looks like the dark bare branches. Beautiful colours. Many birds are not camouflaged but stand out because they are "pied". This means that they are black and white. Black and white birds include magpies, pied geese, pelicans, and Australian magpies (which are not really magpies at all). Pied birds often have brightly coloured beaks and legs of yellow or red. The silver pheasant, with its long white tail striped with fine bars of black, has a brightly coloured face. Some birds are famous for their colour and are named for it, such as the Bluebird, the Azure Kingfisher, the Golden Pheasant, the Scarlet Macaw, the Violet Wren and the Robin Redbreast. Many other birds are very brightly coloured, in countless combinations. Some of the most colourful birds are quite common like pheasants, peacocks, domestic fowl and parrots. Colourful small birds include blue tits, the gold finches, humming birds, fairy wrens and bee eaters (which are also called "rainbow birds"). Some birds, like those of the Bird of Paradise in Papua New Guinea have such beautiful feathers that they have been hunted for them. With some birds, such as flamingos, the male and the female are both brightly coloured. With other species, only the male is brightly coloured, and uses his colouful feathers to attract females. The peacock is the best example of this, but also in the domestic fowl, the male has long shiny feathers above his tale and also long neck feathers that may be a different colour to his wings and body. There are only a very few types of birds (like the Eclectus Parrot) where the female is more colourful than the male. How do birds fly? Most birds can fly. They do this by pushing through the air with their wings. The curved surfaces of the wings cause air currents (wind) which lift the bird. Flapping keeps the air current moving to create lift and also moves the bird forward. Some birds can "glide" on air currents without flapping. Many birds use this method when they are about to land. Some birds can also "hover" and remain in one place. This method is used by birds of prey such as falcons that are looking for something to eat. Seagulls are also good at "hovering", particularly if there is a strong breeze. The most expert "hovering" birds are tiny hummingbirds which can beat their wings both backwards and forwards and can stay quite still in the air while they dip their long beaks into flowers to feed on the sweet nectar. Types of flight. Different types of birds have different needs. Their wings are "adapted" to suit the way they fly. Large birds of prey, such as eagles, that spend a lot of time "soaring" on the wind have wings that are large and broad. The main flight feathers are long and wide. They help the eagle to stay on rising "air currents" without using much energy, while the eagle looks at the ground below, to find the next meal. When the eagle sees some small creature move, it can close its wings and fall from the sky like a missile, opening its great wings again to slow down as it comes to land. The world's largest eagle, the Philippine Eagle has a wingspan of about 2 metres (6.7 ft) wide. Birds that live in grassland areas or open forests and feed on fruit, insects and reptiles often spend a lot of time flying short journeys looking for food and water. They have wings that are shaped in a similar way to eagles, but rounder and not as good for soaring. These include many Australian birds like Cockatoos. Birds, such as geese, that migrate from one country to another fly very long distances. Their wings are big and strong, because the birds are large and they stock up on food for the long flight. Migrating water birds usually form family groups of 12-30 birds. They fly very high, making use of long streams of air that blow from north to south in different seasons. They are very well organised, often flying in a V pattern. The geese at the back don't have to flap so hard; they are pulled on by the wind of the ones at the front. Every so often, they change the leader so that the front bird, who does most work and sets the pace, can have a rest. Geese and swans are the highest-flying birds, reaching 8,000 metres or more when on migration. Geese often "honk" loudly while they are flying. It is thought that they do this to support the leader and help the young ones. Birds that fly very quickly, such as swifts and swallows, have long narrow pointed wings. These birds need great speed because they eat insects, catching most of them while they are flying. These birds also migrate. They often collect in huge flocks of thousands of birds that move together like a whirling cloud. Birds that live in bushes and branches have triangular wings that help the bird change direction. Many forest birds are expert at getting up speed by flapping and then gliding steadily among the trees, tilting to avoid things as they go. Members of the kingfisher family are expert at this type of flying. Birds such as owls that hunt at night have wings with soft rounded feathers so that they don't flap loudly. Birds that are awake at night are called "nocturnal" birds. Birds that are awake during the day are "diurnal". A Wandering Albatross and Arctic Tern might spend several years without coming to land. They can sleep while gliding and have wings which, when they are stretched right out, look like the wings of a jet plane. Bird like chickens that feed mainly on the ground and only use their wings to fly to safety have small wings. Flightless birds. Some birds do not fly. These include running birds like ostriches and emus and ocean-living birds, the large penguin family. Ostriches and emus do not need to fly because although they feed and nest on the ground, their great size and their speed is their protection. Some other ground-feeding birds have not been so lucky. Some birds such as the Dodo and the Kiwi were ground-feeding birds that lived in safety on islands where there was nothing dangerous to eat them. They lost the power of flight. Kiwis are endangered because European settlement to New Zealand brought animals like cats, dogs and rats which kill kiwis and eat their eggs. However, Kiwis and also the rare New Zealand Ground Parrot have survived. In the case of Dodos, they were fat and delicious. They were killed and eaten by sailors until there was none left. Other flightless birds which have disappeared are the Auk and the Moa. Penguins spend a great deal of time at sea, where they are in danger from seals. On land, they usually live in areas where there were few dangers, until the arrival of European settlers with dogs and cats. Their wings have adapted to life in the sea and have become flippers which help them in swimming very fast. Choosing partners. Although birds are warm-blooded creatures like mammals, they do not give birth to live babies. They lay eggs like cold-blooded creatures such as lizards. Unlike most reptiles, the shell of a bird's egg is hard. The baby bird grows inside the egg and after a few weeks, breaks out, or "hatches". Birds in cold climates usually have a "breeding season" once a year in the spring. Migratory birds can have two springs and two mating seasons in a year. So can birds that live in hot climates. When the breeding season arrives, the birds choose partners. Some birds are mated for life, like married couples. These birds include pigeons, geese, and cranes. Other birds look for new partners each year and sometimes a male bird or "cock" will have several wives. For birds that choose new mates, part of the breeding season is "display". The male bird will do all sorts of things to attract females. These include singing, dancing, showing off the feathers and building a beautiful nest. Some male birds have splendid feathers for attracting females. The most famous is the peacock who can spread the feathers above his tale into a huge fan. Nesting. Once the birds have found partners, they find a suitable place to lay eggs. The idea of what is a suitable place differs from one species of bird to another. Most birds make nests of one sort or another but these differ from bird to bird as well. Robins will make a beautiful little round nest of woven grass and carefully line it with feathers, bits of fluff and other soft things. Swallows like to nest near other swallows. They make nests from little blobs of clay, often on a beam near the roof of a building where it is well sheltered. Many birds like a hollow tree to nest in. Eagle's nests are often just piles of dead wood on the top of the tallest tree or mountain. Scrub Turkeys scratch together a huge pile of leaves that may be 10 metres across. Guillemots lay their eggs on rock shelves with no nest at all. Their eggs are shaped so that they roll around in circles. A cuckoo doesn't bother about making its own nest. It lays its egg in the nest of some other bird and leaves it for strangers to care for. When the nest has been prepared, the birds mate so that the eggs are fertilised and the chicks will start growing. Unlike mammals, birds only have one opening as the exit hole for body fluids. The opening is called the cloaca. A female bird, called a "hen" has two ovaries, of which the left one usually produces eggs. Most male birds have no sex organs that can be seen. But inside the male are two testes which produce sperm which is stored in the "cloaca". Birds mate by rubbing their cloacas together, although with some birds, particularly large water birds, the male has a sort of a penis inside the "cloaca". Hatching. Once the "hen" has mated, she produces fertile eggs which have chicks growing inside them. She lays the eggs in the nest. There might be just one egg or a number of them, called a "clutch". Emus might lay as many as fifteen huge dark green eggs in a clutch. After the eggs are laid, they are incubated", or kept warm so the chicks form inside. One of the good things about the fact that most birds stay together for the whole nesting time is that the work is shared. The birds generally take turns sitting on the eggs, so that both can feed. This is not always the case. With Emus, the male does all the "sitting" and all the baby-minding. With Emperor Penguins it is also the male that cares for the egg. There is only one egg, which he keeps on his feet and under his feathers, standing in a big group of males without feeding until the chick is hatched. While the eggs are hatching, the females are at sea, feeding, so that they can care for the chicks when they return. With birds that build mounds, the heat to hatch the eggs comes from the sun on the rotten leaves. The parents leave the mound. When the chicks hatch, they are strong enough to feed themselves. Many types of birds take 2-4 weeks to hatch eggs. Albatrosses take 80 days. During this time the female loses a lot of her body weight. The quickest hatching time is for the Cuckoo. Some types of cuckoos take only 10 days. This means that when they hatch in the nest of their "foster parents", the eggs that the parents have laid are not yet ready. Newborn cuckoos are naked, blind and ugly, but they are very strong. They get under any eggs that are in the nest and throw them out before they hatch. That means that the cuckoo has the whole care of both parents. Baby cuckoos grow fast and are often soon bigger than the parents who feed them. When baby birds hatch, in most types of birds, they are fed by both parents, and sometimes by older "aunties" as well. Their mouths are open all the time and are often very brightly coloured so the parents can easily see where to put the food. For birds that eat grain and fruit, the parents eat and partly "digest" the food for the babies. It is then vomitted carefully into the babies mouth. Families. Many birds, particularly those that mate for life, are very sociable and keep together in a family group which might be anything from 4 or 6 adult birds and their young to a very large flock. As chicks grow they change the fluffy "down" that covers them as babies for real feathers. At this stage they are called "fledglings". Other family members may help care for fledgling chicks, feeding them, and protecting them from attack while parents are feeding. When the "fledglings" have their new feathers, they come out of the nest to learn to fly. In some types of birds, like pigeons, the parents watch over this and as the young ones get stronger, will give them flying lessons, teaching them how to glide, how to fly in spirals and how to land like an expert. Flocks. Flocks of birds can be very highly organised in a way that takes care of all the flock members. Studies of small flocking birds like tree sparrows show that they clearly communicate with each other, as sometimes thousands of birds may fly in close formation and spiral patterns without "colliding" (or flying into each other). Two common behaviours in flocking birds are "guarding" and "reconnaissance". When a flock of birds is feeding it is common for one bird to perch on a high place to keep "guard" over the flock. In the same way, when a flock is asleep, often, one bird will remain awake. It is also common for large flocks to send one or two birds ahead of them when they are flying to a new area. The look-out birds can spy the "lie of the land" to find food, water and good places to perch.. Communication. All birds make sounds to communicate. The types of noises that they make are different. All birds have "cries" which are the sounds to communicate. Some birds can also "sing". These birds are called "songbirds". Some songbirds are robins, larks, canaries, thrushes, nightingales and crows. Birds that are "not" songbirds are pigeons, seagulls, eagles, owls and ducks. Parrots are not songbirds, even though they can be taught to sing human songs. Lorenz's studies. The Austrian naturalist Konrad Lorenz studied the way in which birds communicate, or talk to each other. He found that each type of bird had a number of sounds which they made automatically, when ever they felt a certain way. Every sound had an action that went with it. So, if the bird was frightened, it acted frightened and made a frightened sound. This told the other birds around it that something frightening was happening. If a flock of birds were flying over a field, they would be calling "Fly! Fly!" But a hungry bird, seeing something good to eat down below might start calling "Food! Food!" If other birds were also hungry, they would make the same call until more birds were calling "Food! Food!" than "Fly! Fly!". At this point, the mind of the flock would be changed. Some of the birds would start to yell "Fly downwards! Fly downwards!" as they sank from the sky, until the whole flock was all noisily calling the same thing. These communication sounds are often short hard sounds like chirps, squeaks, squawks. and twitters. Sometimes the calls are longer and more musical. They include the "Rookety-coo" sound of a pigeon and the "Cockadoodledoo!" of a rooster. The bird cannot change these sounds. They always make them in the same way. The bird is locked into making each sound every time a particular idea comes into its head. Songbirds. When a bird sings, it can chose what it sings and it can change its song. Most singing birds that are kept as pets, like canaries, have several tunes and some variations. Songbirds in the wild can learn songs from each other. The same species of bird will sing different songs in different regions. A good example of this is the Currawong. This is an Australia bird which is like a black and white crow. In the autumn, families get together in large flocks and do a lot of singing. Currawongs from some areas sing much more complex songs than others. Generally, Currawongs from the Blue Mountains are the finest singers. The song of the Currawong can be sung as a solo, but is often performed as a choir. One bird will take the lead and sing "Warble-warble-warble-warble!" All the other birds will join in and sing "Wooooooo!" When all the birds know the song, the choir will sing the "Warble" part and the soloist will sing the "Woo!". The song changes from year to year and from place to place. The Jackdaw of Altenberg. Konrad Lorenz noticed that when birds sing, they often use a lot of their regular calls as part of the song. Lorenz had a flock of Jackdaws which were scattered during World War II. One day, an old bird returned. For many months she sat on the chimney singing her song, but in the song she kept making the call which Lorenz knew meant "Come home! Come home!" One day, to the great surprise of Lorenz, a male bird flew from a passing flock and joined her on the chimney. Lorenz was sure that it was her long-lost "husband" who had found his way home at last. The first bird-like creatures. Lots of scientists think that birds are from the "theropod" dinosaur family. Specifically, birds are placed in the "Maniraptora" group of theropods. It is difficult to say if, when, or how they changed from dinosaurs into birds. Many small "theropod" dinosaurs seem to have had feathers; this was realized when people found their bones in Northeast China (Liaoning Province). The "dromaeosaur" they found, "Cryptovolans", could probably fly well by moving its wings. Perhaps it was better at flying than "Archaeopteryx". The ancient bird "Archaeopteryx" was from the Jurassic time of pre-human history. It is famous, because it was one of the first things people found after Charles Darwin wrote his ideas about evolution in the 19th century. Today it is the oldest, simplest bird we know. Other early birds now dead are, for example, the "Confuciusornithidae", "Enantiornithes", "Ichthyornis", and "Hesperornithiformes". Birds and people. Birds are an important thing for people to eat. The sort of birds that people eat most often is the chicken and its eggs, but people often also eat geese, pheasants, turkeys and ducks. Other birds are sometimes eaten are emus, ostriches, pigeons, grouse, quails, doves, woodcocks, songbirds and others. At one time swans and flamingos were special food for the rich and powerful, like some Emperors of Rome, but people are usually not allowed to eat them now. Many species have all died because of too much hunting (killing for food), for example the "Passenger Pigeon". Many others are in danger or dead, because people have taken away the places where they lived for wood or farms. Many species have learned how to get food from people. The number of birds of these species has grown because of it. Seagulls and crows find food from dumping areas. The common pigeon or "Rock Dove" ("Columba livia") lives in large numbers in towns and cities all over the world. In North America, House Sparrows ("Passer domesticus"), Common Starlings ("Sturnus vulgaris"), and House Finches ("Carpodacus mexicanus") are also found in large numbers. Sometimes people also use birds. For example homing pigeons carry messages (today people sometimes use them for sport). People also use falcons for hunting, and cormorants for fishing. Scientists often use chickens and pigeons to help find answers to their questions. In the past, people in mines often used a Canary to see if there were bad gases in the air. People often have colorful birds such as parrots, and mynahs) as pets. Some of these birds are popular because they can copy human talking. Because of this, some people trap birds and take them to other countries to sell. This is not usually allowed. Most pet birds are specially bred and are sold in pet shops. People can catch some bird diseases, for example "psittacosis", "salmonellosis", "campylobacteriosis", Newcastle's disease, "mycobacteriosis", influenza, "giardiasis", and "cryptosporiadiosis". In 2005, there is an epidemic of bird influenza spreading through some parts of the world, often called avian flu. Some people have birdboxes in their gardens to give birds a place to nest and bird tables where birds can get food and water in very cold or very dry weather.  
Freedom of speech	Freedom of speech is the right to state one's opinions and ideas without being stopped or punished. Sometimes this is also called Freedom of expression. Most people think freedom of speech is necessary for a democratic government. In countries without free speech, people might be afraid to say what they think. Then, the government does not know what the people want. If it does not know what they want, it cannot respond to their wants. Without free speech, the government does not have to worry as much about doing what the people want. Some people say this is why some governments do not allow free speech: they do not want to be criticised, or they fear there would be revolution if everyone knew everything that was happening in the country. A well-known liberal thinker, John Stuart Mill thinks that freedom of speech is not as important because everyone should have a right to express him or herself, but because the society they live in should have a right to hear that person's ideas. Few countries with "free speech" let everything be said. In America, you are not allowed to shout "fire" in a crowded theater if there is no fire, because this might cause people to panic. After World War II, Germany banned some Nazi ideas.  
Banana	A Banana is a fruit that grows in clusters on banana trees. There are about 100 different kinds of banana trees. Some banana trees grow edible fruit. There are several kinds of bananas in different colors. When most bananas are ripe, they turn yellow with brown patches. Unripe bananas are usually green, but it also depends what country they are grown in. Many bananas have a curved shape, but some bananas are straight. Bananas have a lot of potassium. Bananas are grown around the world. The countries that export (send to other places for sale) the most bananas include India, Brazil, China, Ecuador and the Philippines.  
Biel	Biel (or Bienne) is an industrial town in Switzerland. It is in the part of Switzerland named Bern and near the city also named Bern. The town is known for many companies that make watches and machines. History. For many hundreds of years the town was run by another place named Basel. It tried to join with other cities in Switzerland. But it was not allowed to join the Swiss Confederation until 1815. Biel is home to a firm named Swatch which makes watches sold around the world. In 1998, Swatch announced that Biel would be the center of a new way of measuring time. Biel Mean Time was created as a way to advertise that Swatch was a modern firm with new ideas. Language. About 57% of the people in Biel speak German as their mother tongue. The remaining 43% speak French as their mother tongue. That is why the city has two names.  
Swatch Internet Time	Swatch Internet Time is a way to measure time invented in 1998 by the Swatch manufacturing firm in Biel, Switzerland. Time is shown as an "@" mark with three numerals. The day starts with @000 for midnight. Noon is @500. Just before midnight is @999. The thousand parts which make up a day are called "dot beats" (.beats). Each dot beat is one minute and 26.4 seconds long. Midnight is the same as Central European Winter Time and Internet Time is the same in all the world. It does not change during the Summer. People can use it to plan phone calls or Internet meetings. Most types of Linux can show Internet Time as the desktop clock.  
Test tube	A test tube is a kind of laboratory glassware, composed of a fingerlike length of glass tubing, open at the top, usually with a rounded lip at the top, and a rounded 'U' shaped bottom. They range in size from a couple inches to several inches long, from a few millimeters to a couple centimeters in diameter. They are designed to allow easy heating of samples, to be held in a flame, and often are made of expansion-resistant glasses, such as borosilicate glass (known by brand-names such as Pyrex and Kimax). Tests tubes are often preferred above beakers when multiple small chemical or biological samples have to be handled and/or stored. Vacutainers are a type of test tube that can be used for both collection and storage of blood.  
Beaker	A beaker is a kind of laboratory glassware. A beaker is a cylinder with a lip and a spout (a bend it the rim of the beaker which makes it easier to pour liquids without spilling any). A beaker is usually about the same width as its height. This makes beakers very stable and easy to handle. They may be made of plastic, glass, or borosilicate glass. Some beakers have marks on them to show about how much volume of liquid they hold - these can not be used for exact measurements. Beakers are often used to make solutions and they are probably the most used piece of laboratory glassware.  
Crucible	In chemistry, a crucible is a kind of laboratory apparatus that is usually a cup, made of porcelain or non-reactive metal, used to heat chemical compounds to very high temperatures. One of the earliest uses of platinum was as a material in crucibles. Metals such as nickel and zirconium are also used as crucible materials these days.  
Lithium	Lithium (symbol Li) is the third chemical element in the periodic table. This means that it has 3 protons in its nucleus and 3 electrons around it. Lithium belongs to Group I. It is one of the alkali metals. Lithium is a silvery solid (when freshly cut). It is very soft. Thus it can be cut easily with a knife. It will react with water, giving off hydrogen to form an alkaline solution. Because of this, lithium must be stored in oil. Lithium is the lightest solid element in the periodic table. It is primarily used in heat transfer alloys, in batteries and serves as a component in some drugs known as mood stabilizers. Lithium is the lightest metal. It has a density that is only half that of water. It is very reactive. It does not occur freely in nature. History. Lithium (Greek "lithos", meaning "stone") was discovered by Johann Arfvedson in 1817. In 1818, Christian Gmelin observed that lithium salts give a bright red color in flame. W.T. Brande and Sir Humphrey Davy later used electrolysis on lithium oxide to isolate the element. It was apparently given the name "lithium" because it was discovered from a mineral, while other common alkali metals were first discovered from plant tissue. Lithuims boiling point is 356.97 degrees faraniheit Isotopes. There are 5 isotopes of Lithium having respectively 2, 3, 4, 5 and 6 neutrons in the nucleus. The most common isotope in nature is 3Li7 which makes up 92.58 % of the total. The second isotope which is widely available is 3Li6 which makes up 7.42 % of the total. The other 3 isotopes exist in very small quantities. The atomic mass of Lithium is 6.939.  
Beryllium	Beryllium is an alkaline earth metal. It is grayish (slightly gray) in color. It has an atomic number of 4 and is symbolized by the letters Be. It is toxic and should not be handled by anyone without proper training. Beryllium's atomic structure consists of 4 electrons, 4 protons, and 5 neutrons. Beryllium is most likely known for the chemical compounds it forms. Some of these are emeralds and aquamarines. Beryllium has one of the highest melting points of the light metals. At standard temperature and pressures beryllium resists oxidation when exposed to oxygen.  
Data compression	Data compression is making data use less space on a data storage device. When we compress data, we make it smaller. Some reasons why data is compressed are: to make it download faster, to make it fit on floppy disks, and to make it easier to archive (keep). To make pictures and movies smaller, we often remove parts that the human eye cannot see. This is known as "lossy" compression and it is effective because of human limitations. There are many different ways to compress data. The most common way is known as "zipping" data. You can also "unzip" data to use it again. The output from "unzipping" a zip file are files identical to the original files, this is known as "lossless" compression.  
Compiler	In computer science, a compiler is a program that takes "source code" and changes it to a target language (mostly machine code). For many programmers, using a compiler is easier than writing the machine code themselves because there are many different machine codes (it can take a long time to write for each of the machine codes).  
Eye	The eye is the part of the body that lets humans and most animals see. It also gives them knowledge of nature's 24-hour cycle of light and darkness. Most animals have two eyes. The eye is an organ for the purpose of sensing light. The simplest eyes (such as those of some animals and even protein spots in one-celled organisms) register nothing but whether the surrounding area is light or darkness. Some snails, for example, see no image (picture) at all, but they "see" light, enabling them to keep out of direct sunlight. Slightly better eyes are shaped like cups, which lets the organism know from which direction light is coming. More complex eyes give the full sense of vision, including color, motion, and texture. These eyes have a round shape that makes light rays focus on the back part of the eye, called the "retina". There are (at least) three types of light-sensitive cells in the retina in mammals. Two of them, "rods" and "cones", allow sight (or seeing) by sending signals through the optic nerve to the brain. The third type senses light for a different purpose than seeing. Some special "ganglion" cells in the retina send their information about light to the brain along a different path (the "retinohypothalamic tract"). This information adjusts (synchronizes) the individual's circadian rhythm to nature's light/dark cycle of 24 hours. This system also works for some blind people who cannot see light at all. Some animals can see light which is outside of the human range of visible light. They can see ultraviolet or infrared light. The "lens" on the front part of the eye is curved and acts like a camera lens. It can be pulled flatter or rounder by muscles inside the eye. As some people get older, they might not be as able to do this. Many people are born with other sight problems or get them later in life, and they may need eyeglasses (or "contact lenses") to fix the problem.  
Tongue-twister	A tongue-twister is a sentence that is hard to say. They often use alliteration and homophones.  
AbiWord	AbiWord is a free word processor that can be downloaded for free, it is open source and is much smaller in size than a proprietary alternative, Microsoft Word. It is available for FreeBSD, Linux, Microsoft Windows, Mac OS X, and QNX. Its mascot is Abi the ant. It is much smaller than many other commercial word-processors of its time, only using about 15Mb on a computer's hard drive under Microsoft Windows. It is easy to use. See also. OpenOffice.org Writer  
Insect	Insects are a group of invertebrate animals and are part of the phylum Arthropoda. They are the biological class Insecta'". Some people call insects "bugs", but this is not right; insects are insects, not "bugs". Only some insects are true bugs, which is a special group of insects. Insects are the biggest group of animals on earth, and there are more than 800,000 different kinds (or species) of them. There are often new species of insects being found, and scientists think there are millions of species people have not found yet. There are more insects than all other kinds of animals. Insects live all over the planet, but not many insects live in the oceans or in very cold places, such as Antarctica. The most kinds of insects live in tropical areas. The science of insects is called entomology, and people who study insects are called entomologists. Insect bodies. Insects have exoskeletons (skeletons on the outside). This does not mean they have bones on the outside of their bodies. Their skeletons are made out of thin, hard pieces or plates, like armour. All together, these pieces make a hard layer around the insect’s body. The exoskeleton protects the insect. Just like our muscles connect to our bones to make us walk and stand up, the muscles of an insect connect to the exoskeleton to make it walk and move. The body of an insect has three main parts: a head, a thorax, and an abdomen. On the head are an insect’s eyes, its antennae (they feel and smell things), and its mouth. On the thorax, insects have wings and legs. All insects have six legs (three pairs) and usually four wings (two pairs). The abdomen is the back part of the insect. Inside the abdomen is the stomach, the heart, and the excretory system where body wastes pass out of the insect. Bees also have a stinger at the back of the abdomen. How insects grow. Insects grow very differently than people. Most insects start as an egg that a female (mother) insect lays. These eggs are very small; many can not be seen without special help, such as a magnifying glass or a microscope. After the eggs hatch, there are two different things that can happen. Some insects have what is called incomplete metamorphosis. This means that a small insect, called a nymph comes out of the egg, and the nymph looks almost the same as the adult insect. As the nymph grows, it does not change the way it looks, but only how big it is. Grasshoppers grow in this way. Other insects have complete metamorphosis, which means that the small insect that comes out of the egg looks very different from the adult insect. Insects that have complete metamorphosis usually come out of the egg as a larva, which usually looks like a worm. The larva eats food and gets bigger until it turns into a pupa. Butterfly pupae (plural for pupa) are often inside cocoons. Inside the cocoon the insect changes the way it looks and often grows wings. When the cocoon opens, the adult insect comes out. Many insects have complete metamorphosis, for example beetles, butterflies and moths, and flies. Kinds of insects. Contrary to what some people believe, spiders, scorpions, and similar animals are not insects; they are arachnids. Arachnids are arthropods that have 4 pairs of legs. Centipedes are arthropods with many legs and are also not insects. Insects and people. People often think of insects as being either good or bad. “Good” insects are beneficial to people, meaning they do things that help people. “Bad” insects are called pests. Pest insects can be harmful to people in different ways. Some are parasites, such as lice and bed bugs. Some of these parasite insects can spread diseases, such as mosquitoes spreading malaria. Other pest insects do not directly hurt people. Termites and some beetles eat wood and sometimes eat buildings, such as houses. Many insects eat agricultural products (plants meant for people to eat). Grasshoppers are one example of pest insects that eat plants in agriculture. Many people think all insects are bad, but this is not true. Many insects help people. Some kinds of insects, such as bees, make food (honey) that people can eat. The larvae of some moths make silk, which people use to make clothing. In some parts of the world, people actually eat insects. Eating insects for food is called entomophagy. Insects help people in other ways. Many bees and flies pollinate plants. This means the insects help the plants make seeds by moving pollen from one flower to another. Some good insects eat pest insects, such as lady beetles (or ladybirds or ladybugs) eating aphids. Many insects eat dead plants and animals. This is good because, if they did not eat all the dead things, there would be dead plants and animals everywhere. People often use poisons called insecticides to kill pest insects. Insecticides do not always work. Sometimes the pest insects become resistant to the insecticides, which means the insecticides can not hurt them anymore. Both the Colorado potato beetle and the diamondback moth are insects that are resistant to many insecticides. Insecticides do not only kill pest insects; sometimes many helpful insects are killed too. When helpful insects are killed, such as those that eat pest insects, the pest insects may come back in larger numbers than before because they are not being eaten by helpful insects anymore. (Simplified) Taxonomy. This taxonomy lists some of the better known groups of insects.  
List of operating systems	This is a list of operating systems. Hobby OS. Operating systems written for a hobby. Microcontroller, embedded. Little operating systems that run on small devices. Fictional operating systems. Operating systems that have only appeared in fiction or as jokes.  
Computer jargon	Computer jargon means words to do with computers and surrounding topics. Knowing what these words mean can help you know more about computers. Some people use these words to impress other people (Also known as buzzwords).  
Million	A million (1,000,000) is a large number. It is one thousand thousands.  
Thousand	A thousand (1,000) is a number. It is ten hundreds. Examples of a thousand. If you have a thousand thousands, it is known as million.  
Gross domestic product	In economics, the gross domestic product (GDP) is how much a place produces in some amount of time. For nations, the GDP can be found by adding up its output inside the borders of that country. To know the GDP of a country, one would need to add up the consumer spending, investment spending, government spending and the value of the exports and subtract the value of the imports. This measure is often used to find out the health of a country in an economic way. In other words, a country with a high value of GDP can be called a large economy. This measure is different from gross national product (GNP) in that GNP = GDP + net income from assets abroad (net income receipts). While nominal GDP is the total amount of money spent on GDP, real GDP (like real in most economic meaning) tries to correct this number for inflation. For example, if the price level rises by 2% (everything costs 2% more), and the nominal GDP grows by 5%, the real GDP is still only 3%.  
Cricket	Cricket is a sport. It is played between two teams of eleven players each who score runs (points) by running between two sets of three small, wooden posts called wickets. Each of the wickets is at one end of a rectangle of flattened grass called the pitch. Around the pitch is a much larger oval of grass called the cricket ground. The main rules of cricket. There are two teams. The team bowling has 11 players on the field. The team batting always has two people on the field. The Captain of the bowling team chooses a bowler from his team; the other 10 players are called fielders. The bowler is trying to aim the ball at a wicket, which is made up of three sticks (called stumps) stuck into the earth, with two small sticks (called bails) balanced on them. One of the fielders, called the wicket keeper, stands behind the wicket to catch the ball if the bowler misses the wicket. The other fielders chase the ball after the batter has hit it. The bowler throws (bowls) the ball overarm six times, which is called an over; then another player becomes the bowler for the next over, and bowls from the other end, and so on. The same bowler cannot bowl two overs one after the other. The batter is trying to defend the wicket with his bat. When he hits the ball with his bat, he runs toward the other wicket that the bowler or the other batsman is standing at. To score a run, the two batsmen must both run from their wicket to the other wicket, as many times as they can. If the ball leaves the field after being hit without bouncing, six runs are scored. If the ball rolls or bounces out, whether or not the batter hit it, it counts as four runs. Where cricket is played. Cricket is popular in many countries, mostly in Commonwealth countries. The countries where cricket is most popular compete in international matches (games between countries) that last up to 5 days, which are called Test Matches; those countries are India, Australia, Pakistan, Bangladesh, Sri Lanka, South Africa, New Zealand, Zimbabwe and England, as well as a group of Caribbean countries that play together as a team called the West Indies. Cricket is also played in Kenya, Canada, Bermuda, Ireland, Scotland, and various European and Asian countries; the national teams of those countries can play one-day international matches, but are not allowed to play Test Matches. Averages. For a famous example of a batting average, see Don Bradman.  
Athletics (track and field)	Athletics (in the United States also known as track and field or track and field athletics) is a collection of sport events that includes running, jumping and throwing. About. Athletics is a very common sporting event over the world. Athletics is a combination of different sports, generally running, jumping and throwing events. Running events include marathons, long distance and short distance events. Some jumping events are high jump, long jump, triple jump and pole vault. Throwing events involve javelin, discus, hammer and shot-put. All participants are timed or have a distance measured and this is their end result. Participants train hard for an event and always aim to better their results. Athletics is a sport that people take part in all over the world. It is a sport that is most common between young children up to younger adults. Athletics can be played for enjoyment, but it can also be a competitive sport. Athletics is also an event in the Olympic games.  
Badminton	Badminton is a sport for two or four people. In this way, either the game consists of one player against one player or a team of two players against another team of two players. Players use racquets to hit a shuttlecock over a net. The aim of the game is to hit the shuttlecock over the net in a way that the other player or pair cannot hit it back before it hits the floor. Also the aim is for the shuttlecock not to land outside the court. Every time this is done, the player or pair gets one point, if they were serving. If the other team was serving, the first team gets to serve. The first player or pair to reach 21 points wins a game. The winner of the match is the first to win 2 sets. In both singles and doubles, there is a change of service when the server loses a point. In doubles, the first team to serve has one player serve. All other times, both players on the team serve. History. Badminton was invented by British soldiers in Pune, India in the 19th century. As the city of Pune was formerly known as Poona, the game was also called Poona then.  
Chemical warfare	If we use chemicals (like Agent Orange or glyphosate) to destroy plants, sometimes human beings may be affected by side-effects. But, we will not call it chemical warfare. Chemical warfare covers only direct attacks on human life. Use in antiquity. The first form of chemical warfare was in the form of poisoned arrows, and spear-tips, during the Stone age. These were dipped in poison (like that from snakes or scorpions. Sometimes poisonous plants were used. The Ancient Chinese used various forms of poisonous smokes, when they besieged a city. Ancient Greeks used a form of burning wood, pitch, and sulphur. Modern use. Chemical warfare was used for the first time in World War I. Chlorine, mustard gas, and phosgene gas were used in the war, to kill or hurt enemy soldiers. But, they were not used very much in World War II, apart by the Japanese army during the invasion of China. This was because, everybody was afraid that the other side would use weapons like theirs. Also, chemical weapons were not easy to use. The time taken to use them, slowed the advance of one's own troops. The raw materials for producing chemical weapons were not easy to get. This was because World War II was fought in areas which were not connected well by railroads. During the Iran-Iraq War, Iraq used chemical weapons, but not Iran. Many people believe that Iraq used chemical weapons against Kurdish people. According to international law, it is wrong to use chemical weapons. There are many rules that ban the production, import and use of chemical weapons. Of these the most important is the Chemical Weapons Convention(CWC). UN formed a working group in 1980 that works for making the number of chemical weapons in the world less. On April 4, 1984 the President of United States, Ronald Reagan called for an world-wide ban on chemical weapons. After this, negotiations between various countries started. The Chemical Weapons Convention was signed in 1993 and came into effect in 1997. Experts believe that 70,000 metric tons of chemical weapons are known to be present totally in this world. Out of this, 8000 metric tons have been destroyed in the past few years. By 2003, United States had destroyed 23% of its total chemical weapons. Other countries like India, South Korea and Russia are destroying chemical weapons under the CWC. Libya is also destroying its weapons in the last few years. It has been reported that many other countries like People's Republic of China, Cuba, Egypt, Iran, Israel, North Korea, Pakistan, Sudan, Syria, Taiwan, Serbia and Montenegro have chemical weapons.  
Iran	Iran or Persia is a country in South Asia part of the Greater Middle East region. It shares borders with Afghanistan, Armenia, Azerbaijan, Iraq, Pakistan, Turkey, and Turkmenistan. Tehran is the capital and the biggest city. Iran is the 18th largest country in the world and has 70million people. History. Iran used to be called Persia for a long time by people outside of Iran. Iranians or Persians since the Sassanian era called their country "Iran". The name Iran comes from "Aryan" and is also mentioned in the ancient book of the Zoroastrians, which was called the Avesta. "Iran" means "Land of Aryans" Around 500 BC, present-day Iran was the center of the Persian Empire. Then, Alexander the Great took the country by fighting and the "Achaemenid dynasty" of Persia later ruled. After them the "Sassanian dynasty" (AD 224-651) took over. Other people took Persia by fighting like the Arabs (7th century), Turks (10th century) and Mongols (13th century). However, Iran has always maintained a distinct culture and continued to survive. The "Safavid dynasty" (1502-1736) made Islam the religion of Iran although Islam was always popular then. The latest kings of Iran where from "Pahlavi dynasty", and ruled from 1925 until 1979, when there was a revolution and Ayatollah Khomeini created an Islamic republic. In 1951 Dr. Mohammed Mossadegh was brought to power after being elected as prime minister by nearly all members of the Majlis (parliament) in Iran. His first act in office was to take control of the oil industry in Iran which had been controlled by Great Britain. Most of Britain's oil was pumped from Iran at the time. This move was seen as a danger to Great Britain's security and empire, so they tried to overthrow the government but failed. After this they convinced the United States through diplomacy that the government of Iran was a communist threat. The CIA worked in Iran to create riots which led to the removal of Prime Minister Mossadegh. The United States and Great Britain then made the Shah Mohammad Reza Pahlavi leader of Iran again. He ruled in Iran for less than a year when he left Iran and the Iranian government was changed to an Islamic Republic. Soon afterwards, Iranian students, with the backing of the new government took over the U.S. Embassy and held most of the diplomats hostage for over a year. Relations between the two countries have not been good since. For example. The US has imposed various types of economic sanctions against Iran. The US claims the Iran supports terrorist groups against Israel, something that is completly not true. Iran does not recognize Israel as a state. Iran, along with most Arab countries believe that Israel does not have the right to occupy the land of Palestinians. Iran has long borders in common with Iraq. (The words "Iran" and "Iraq" are similar only in Latin alphabet. In Arabic and Persian, they are written different.) Iranians are ethnically not Arabs. Iran defended itself against Iraqi invasion in 1980, a war that lasted eight years. Many Arab and Western countries, including the United States provided weapons (including biological and chemical weapons of mass destruction) and technical support for Iraq's Saddam Hussein. Today, the West is trying hard to prevent Iran from mastering nuclear technology, even though Iran is a member of the NPT. They voice their concern claiming that Iran's intention is to develop nuclear weapons. The International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) has reported numerous times that there is no evidence that Iran is developing nuclear weapons, however, it also says that it cannot say for sure that Iran is not doing so in secret. A CIA report on nuclear activity in Iran in December 2007 claimed that Iran's secret program to achieve nuclear weapons technology was stopped in 2003, and that since then, it was never restarted. It reports that Iran's ability to build a nuclear weapon will probably not happen soon.  
Gautama Buddha	Siddhārta Gautama was the name of the person who began the religion of Buddhism. He lived from about 563 BCE to about 483 BCE. He was the most recent Buddha, and some people just call him "the Buddha". He is also called Sakyamuni or Tathāgata. Some "Buddhists" believe that Siddhārtha Gautama was a perfect person. The life of Siddhārta Gautama. There are many old stories about the life of the "Buddha". No one knows which stories are true and which stories are made up. But most historians think that the Buddha was a real person. He was very kind and wise and wanted to change the world. His early years. Old stories say that Siddhārtha Gautama was born in the kingdom of Kapilavastu in Nepal. At that time, a clan called the Sakyas ruled Kapilavastu. His father was a king named Suddodana Gautama, and his mother was the beautiful Mahamaya. Siddhārtha lived in luxury; his father kept trouble and hard work far from him. A "seer" said that Siddhārtha would become either a great king or a great holy man. (A seer is a wise man who can see the future.) The king did not want his son to become a holy man. He believed if he always kept Siddhārtha happy, he would not want to become a holy man. So his father never let Siddharta outside the palace. When he was older, his father found a woman for Siddhārtha to marry at the age of 16. He married the woman named Yashodhara, and they had a son, Rahula. Although Gautama had everything he could want, he still was not happy. He wanted to learn the meaning of his existence. He got out of the castle against his fathers orders. He saw the "Four Passing Sights": an old crippled man, a sick man, a dead man, and a holy man with no home. Right then, Gautama knew that nothing can stop people from being born, becoming old, getting sick, and dying. He decided to give up his worldly life. He would not keep his wife, his child, his wealth, or his palace. He would become a holy man with no home. He would look for the answer to the problem of birth, old age, sickness, and death. He left his home in the middle of the night. He looked at his family one last time. He did not return for a very long time. Seeking Answers. At that time, holy men were usually "ascetics". They hurt their bodies in order to help their "spiritual" beings. They do not do things they like so they can defeat their desires. The most "ascetic" kinds of holy men were called Jains. They practiced self-denial and made themselves suffer very much. They believed this would free the ātman (soul) from pain and sadness. Siddhārtha did these things well. Eventually he was better than his teachers. He still found no answer, and he left his teachers. Some friends and he went even further. He ate only one grain of rice a day. He tried not breathing. He became just skin and bones, and he nearly died. Still, he had no answer. Siddhārtha started to think again about this path. He thought there might be a better way than hurting himself. He found a big tree (now called the "Bodhi tree") and started to meditate. He told himself that he would not get up until he had found "enlightenment". His mind is said to have become pure, and then, six years after he began his path, he said he found Enlightenment, and became the first Buddha. The Life as the first Buddha. When the Buddha became "enlightened", he knew the answer to "suffering", and he knew how to defeat "suffering". This answer was called the Four Noble Truths. He was not sure if he should teach his new ideas or not. He asked himself if the world was ready for such a deep teaching. But in the end, he decided to travel to a town called Sarnath to teach the people his new way. He taught about the "Four Noble Truths" and the Noble Eightfold Path. The people listened to him, and began to follow him. When he taught, he did not pretend to be a god. He said he was just a man who had found "enlightenment", and that any person can also find "enlightenment". For the rest of his life, he walked all over Southern Nepal and parts of India to teach people his new way. He started a "Sangha", which is a group of Buddhist monks and nuns. Many people became "enlightened" because of him. At the age of 80, Gautama Buddha died. The Buddha's last words were, "All things must end. Work hard for your own enlightenment". The Life Teachings. The teachings of the Buddha are known as "Buddhism". Buddhism is mostly about ending the feeling of pain that all people feel inside. Gautama Buddha taught that pain is a part of all life. He taught that pain is because of desire. And he showed that there is a way to end desire and end pain by doing good things, not doing bad things, and training one's mind. This is done to end pain and gain "enlightenment". Buddhism teaches non-harm and "moderation" or balance, not going too far one way or the other. The Buddha taught people to meditate, or think deeply, while sitting in a special way. Some Buddhist chant and meditate while walking. Buddhists sometimes do these things to understand the human heart and mind. Sometimes they do these things to understand the way the world works. Sometimes they do these things to find peace. The Buddha would not say if gods exist or not. He taught that people should not look to gods to save them or bring them enlightenment. The gods may have power over world events and they might help people, or they might not. But it's up to each person to become "enlightened".  
North	North is one of the 4 main directions on a compass. North is usually up on most maps. Canada is north of the United States, Venezuela is north of Brazil, and Russia is north of India. The North Pole is the farthest north you can go.  
List of Portuguese football teams	These are some Portuguese football teams.  
Epiphany	Epiphany is a Web browser for GNOME. It is also available for Mac OS X and was made from Galeon. It uses the Gecko layout engine from the Mozilla project to show web pages; however, the Epiphany developers have a new but less stable version of Epiphany 2.21.4 using the WebKit engine instead of Gecko. The Epiphany team wants to stop using Gecko and only use the WebKit engine, by the time they release Epiphany 2.24 or 2.26. Epiphany has tabbed browsing, cookie management, popup blocking and an extensions system. Epiphany can be extended with the Epiphany-extensions package in Linux Operating Systems. Epiphany was made from Galeon by Marco Pesenti Gritti (also the creator of Galeon) with the aim of making a web browser with a very simple user experience. Because of that, Epiphany does not have its own themes, instead, it uses GNOME’s settings that are set in the GNOME Control Center.  
Video game console	A video game console is a machine that is used to play video games. Video game consoles usually connect to a television. Special controllers are attached to the console to control the game. Some video game consoles are handheld. They can be carried around and have their own screens. The Nintendo DS and PlayStation Portable are examples of handheld consoles. Some video game consoles can also run general software, such as Linux.  
PlayStation	The PlayStation is a video game console made by Sony. At the time it was competeing against the Nintendo 64 and Sega Saturn. PlayStation games were released on CD-ROMs. The controllers that were originally released with the console had no analog joysticks on them, but these, along with a vibration feature, were added to later controllers. A slimmer version of the console called the PSOne was released in 2000. This was white, not grey, in colour.  
Election	An election is a way people can choose their candidate or their preferences in a democracy or other form of government. Most democratic countries hold new elections for their national legislature every few years, but this differs from country to country. Some democracies elect other national officials (such as a president). In others, these are appointed. Democratic countries also hold local (or municipal) elections. Some democracies have regional, provincial or state elections too. There are different ways to organize an election in different countries. Voters might vote for an individual, or they might vote for a political party (party list). This is because different countries use different voting systems. Countries that are not democracies can also hold elections. This is usually done to let the people choose a local representative (like a mayor). Also many countries call themselves democracies, but behind the scenes have a more autocratic form of government.Elections are done between the main person and the opposition. Psephology is the study of elections.  
Medicine	Medicine is the science that deals with diseases (illnesses) in humans, the best ways to prevent diseases, and the best ways to return to a healthy condition. People who practice "medicine" are most often called medical doctors / physicians (the words mean the same) or surgeons. For their work, doctors are assisted by nurses and many other types of health care professionals. The word medicine can also mean special food or a chemical that makes someone better when they are ill. A lot of medicines are liquid and can be bought in a small bottle. The doctor may tell the patient (person who is ill) how many spoonfuls to take each day. Most medicines cannot be bought unless the doctor has "prescribed" the medicine for the patient. The doctor writes a "prescription" which the patient takes to the chemist (or "pharmacist") who gives him the medicine. In the USA the chemist is called a druggist.  
Transport	Transport, or transportation, is the movement of people and goods or products from one place to another place. Transport can be divided into "infrastructure", "vehicles" and "operations". "Infrastructure" includes roads, railways, airways, canals and pipelines. The infrastructure is the network where things are carried. Infrastructure also includes airports, railway stations, bus stations and seaports (docks). Infrastructure is usually built by governments and paid for by taxes from the citizens of a country or region. Infrastructure such as roads and railways is designed by civil engineers and urban planners. "Vehicles" or vessels travel on the infrastructure. Vehicles include cars, trucks, trains and airplanes. Vehicles are usually designed by mechanical engineers. Vessels include boats, ferries, and barges which travel on canals and use docks and seaports. In the same way that trains use train stations, airplanes use airports. In the same way that trains use railway lines (train tracks), airplanes use flight paths. "Operations" control the system. Operations include traffic signals, railway signals and air traffic control. Operations also include the government policies (a policy is a plan of action to guide decisions and actions) and regulations (a set or group of laws and rules) used to control the system, such as tolls, fuel taxes, and traffic laws. Transport and communications. Transport and communication can be used instead of each other (someone could telephone a person rather than visit them). But the growth in traffic is only possible because of communication (for example, air traffic control means more airplanes can fly). So an increase of either transport or communication usually leads to an increase in the other one. Transport, energy, and the environment. Transport uses a lot of energy. Most transport uses hydrocarbons (oil and gas). This can create pollution. Environmental regulations (laws) and low-pollution fuels (for example liquified natural gas) can reduce pollution. But as more vehicles are used, more pollution is created.  
Road	A road is a piece of land which connects two or more places. Usually, a road has been made easy to travel on, for example by removing trees and stones so the ground is more level. Although many roads are made of gravel and dirt, some are made of concrete or brick. People have been making roads for a long time. Roman roads and the Incan courier roads are famous. But transport by river was usually easier and faster than transport by road. In the industrial revolution, the railway was invented. A railway is a special type of road, using rails. Roads are now usually made for wheeled vehicles, like cars, to travel on. Road building and care is usually paid for by taxes. Some roads have tolls, where people pay to use the road.  
2004	Year 2004 was a leap year starting on Thursday of the Gregorian calendar. It is the first leap year in the 21st century.  
Hawaiian Islands	Hawaii has been a state since 1959.  
Mauna Kea	Mauna Kea is a dormant volcano in the Hawaiian Islands. It is the highest point in Hawaii at 4,205 meters. If measured from top to bottom, below sea level, it is 10,200 meters high and would be the tallest mountain in the world. It is around 1,000,000 years old. Mauna Kea means 'white mountain' because in winter it often has snow at the summit.  
Mauna Loa	Mauna Loa is an active volcano in the Hawaiian Islands of the United States. Measured from sea level Mauna Loa is 4,169 meters high. It is also one of the largest volcanoes measuring 60 miles long and 30 miles wide. It is about 40,000 cubic meters in volume and over 4 kilometers above sea level. Measured from its base on the ocean floor it reaches above 8 kilometers making it one of the tallest mountain on Earth, but not the highest. That distinction is reserved for Mount Everest.  
Kilauea	Kilauea is an active volcano in the Hawaiian Islands. Kilauea is 1247 meters high. Kilauea is a large lake of lava. The crater of Kilauea is named Pu'u'O'o. The first eruption of Kilauea is estimated as 300 to 600 thousand years ago. Its first recorded eruptions were in 1823. The Hawaiian name 'Kilauea' means 'spewing' or 'much spreading'. It refers to the constant flow of lava. Kilauea lies on the curve of volcanoes on the island of Hawaii that includes Mauna Loa and Kohala. The volcano of Kilauea is one of the youngest and also is said to be the home of an ancient volcano goddess pele. The oldest dated rocks are said to be about 23,000 years old. It has its own magma plumbing under the Earth that goes down under the Earths crust by 60km. Kilauea has a basalt-based lava rock type. Kilauea is formed on a volcanic Hot-spot.  
Van	A van is a type of vehicle. A van is usually bigger than the regular sized car and is meant usually to seat many people, sometimes up to a total of 15. Certain vans, known as panel vans, are used for deliveries. These usually have less windows. A van usually seats three people in each row of seats, or two, depending on the van's type. Many manufacturers make vans. Examples are Chevrolet, Daihatsu, Dodge, Fiat, Ford, GMC, honda, Hyundai, Isuzu, Mazda, Mercedes-Benz, Mitsubishi, Nissan, Subaru, Suzuki, Toyota, Vauxhall and Volkswagen.  
Luggage	People use luggage to carry their possessions when travelling. In the United States luggage is often called baggage.  
Pantograph	A pantograph is an machine. It is used in drawing or planning. It makes it easy to copy diagrams. The device that an electric train uses to get its electricity is also called a pantograph, because it looks a bit like the drawing instrument.  
Paperback	A paperback is a type of book. It has a thin cardboard cover. Another name for paperback is "soft cover". Paperback book covers can bend and be folded. Usually, paperback books cost less money than hardback books.  
Palette	A palette is used for mixing colours.They are usually made out of plastic or wood but can be made out of other materials. An artist often uses one of these and is in fact an essential item in art, when painting.  
Glow-worm	A glow-worm, or glowworm, is an insect. Other names for glow-worms are fire-fly and lightning bug. Glow worms are beetles (one is a fly, Arachnocampa). They are nocturnal. They are active during the night. They have special organs that can produce light. This is used to find mates. The patterns in which the beetles flash is unique per species.  
Palette knife	A palette knife is a blunt knife with an very flexible steel blade and no sharpened cutting edge. It is a tool.  
Foolscap	Foolscap is lined, legal-size paper (a paper size found only in North America). It is called foolscap because, in the 18th century, folio-sized paper had the watermark of a fool's cap on it. In the UK, foolscap paper is 13" X 8" (c 330mm X 203mm), but paper of the size is now very rarely used, being superseded by A4 (297 x 210). Older people may call A4 "foolscap". Nevertheless, ring binders, lever arch files, suspended files, and other filing related things still use the size.  
Polymer	A polymer is a material which has larger molecules made from joining together many small molecules called monomers. The word "polymer" can be broken down into "poly" (meaning "many") and "mer" (meaning "unit"). This shows how the chemical composition of a polymer consists of many smaller units (monomers) bonded together into a larger molecule. A chemical reaction bonding monomers together to make a polymer is called polymerization. Some polymers are natural. Proteins have polypeptide molecules, which are natural polymers made from various amino acid monomer units. Nucleic acids are natural polymers made up of nucleotide units. Cellulose and starch are also natural polymers made up of glucopyranose monomer bonded together in different ways. Some polymers are man-made. Plastics, rubber, and fibers are made up of polymers. Make up of polymers. If the "units" called monomers in a polymer are all the same, then the polymer is called a "homopolymer". Homopolymers are named by adding the prefix poly- before the monomer name from which the polymer is made. For example, a polymer made by bonding styrene monomer molecules together is called polystyrene. If the "units" are not all the same, the polymer is called a "copolymer" or a "heteropolymer". Many polymer molecules are like "chains" where the monomer units are the links. Polymer molecules can be straight-chain, have "branching" from the main chain, or "cross-linking" between chains. For an example of cross-linking, sulfhydryl (-S-H) groups in two cysteine amino acid units in polypeptide chains can bond together to make a disulfide bridge (-S-S-) joining the chains together.  
Medium	A medium is the way or means information is sent or received. Paper is a common "medium", used every day by millions of people. Television is another very common medium; it is said that there is not a community on Earth where at least one family does not own a television. The plural form of "medium" is "media", so radio and television are both types of broadcast media, but paint, charcoal, ink, and clay are types of artistic media. When people buy or sell things, the "medium" is often coins or paper money, but it may also be shells, gems, livestock, or even an agreement to perform a service in the future. A medium is also a person who it is said can pass messages between the living and the dead. This type of medium was quite popular in the West in the 19th century, but most were found to be dishonest and few remain today. In Taoism, mediums still work. However, the power of mediums is mostly believed by the superstitious. Medium is also a size, coming between small and large. Other words used in this way include "intermediate", "average", and "middle".  
Phrase	A phrase is a small group of words that adds meaning to a word. A phrase is not a sentence because it is not a complete idea with a subject and a predicate. In English there are five different kinds of phrases, one for each of the main parts of speech. In a phrase, the main word, or the word that is what the phrase is about, is called the "head." In these examples, it is printed in cyan. The words which make up the rest of the phrase and do the work of changing, or "modifying" the head, are printed in "green". In a noun phrase, one or more words work together to give more information about a noun. In an adjective phrase, one or more words work together to give more information about an adjective. In a verb phrase, one or more words work together to give more meaning to a verb. In English, the verb phrase is very complex, but a good description of its many forms can be found. In an adverb phrase, one or more words work together to give more information about an adverb. In a prepositional phrase, one or more words work together to give information about time, location, or possession, or condition. The preposition always appears at the front of the phrase.  
Preposition	Prepositions are words or word groups which begin a noun phrase with more than one word. Most prepositions tell where or when, or show possession. Prepositions like "in", "beside", "above", and "out of" all tell "where", and are usually used with nouns or pronouns. Some examples with the phrases underlined: "The man sat "close to" his wife. He put his arm "around" her shoulder. Then he kissed her "on" the cheek." Prepositions like "right after", "until", "during", and "before" all tell "when". "Mr. Prasad had an important meeting "until" ten o'clock. "During" the meeting, his cell phone rang. It was his wife. She asked him to come straight home "right after" work." The prepositions "of" and "to" are used to show possession, or "belonging-to": "This book belongs "to Vlad." The cover "of the book" is torn."  
Possess	To possess is to have or to own. "I possess all my teeth," means I still have all I was born with. "The woman possesses five cars," means she owns five cars. A "possession" is something you own. "My only "possessions" are my cat and my brains." In some beliefs, to be possessed is to be under the control of devils, demons, or evil spirits. These people may do evil or terrible things because of their "possession." Sometimes this "possession" was because the person had epilepsy. As the reasons for epilepsy were not known people decided it was caused by evil.  
Pronoun	A pronoun is traditionally called a part of speech in grammar (but many modern linguists, experts in linguistics, call it a special type of noun) In English, pronouns are words such as "me, she, his, them, herself, each other, it, what". Pronouns are often used to take the place of a noun, when that noun is understood (has already been named), to avoid repeating it. For example, instead of saying When a pronoun replaces a noun, the noun is called the antecedent. But, there are times when the pronoun has no antecedent. This is because generally, the antecedent (what comes before) refers grammatically to the use of the relative pronoun in particular. For example, in the sentence: "The dog that was walking down the street", the relative pronoun is the word that referring back to the antecedent, the word 'dog'. In the sentence "The spy who loved me", the relative pronoun is the word 'who' and its antecedent is the word 'spy'. Differences and similarities to nouns. Pronouns are different from common nouns because they normally can't come after "article"s or other "determiner"s. (For example, people don't say "the it".) Pronouns also rarely come after adjectives. They are also different because many of them change depending on how they are used. For example, "we" is a 'subject' in grammar, but the word changes to "us" when used as an object. Pronouns are the same as nouns because they both change for number (singular & plural), case (subject, object, possessive, etc.), and gender (male, female, animate, inanimate, etc.) Nouns and pronouns can be used in almost all the same places in sentences, and they name the same kinds of things: people, objects, etc. Even though they can't normally come after determiners, or adjectives, neither can proper nouns. Kinds of pronouns. There are four kinds of pronouns: personal, reciprocal, interrogative, and relative. Personal pronouns in English. This table shows all the personal pronouns in English that are commonly used today. A Subject Pronoun can replace a noun that is the subject of a sentence. Refer to the table above; the subject pronouns are: I, You, He, She, It, We, They. Another type of personal pronoun is called the 'reflexive pronoun'. Reflexive pronouns are the words ending in '-self' or '-selves', such as: "myself, itself, themselves".  
Adverb	An adverb is a word used to tell more about a verb, and it almost always answers the questions "how?", "when?", "where?", "how often?", and "in what way?". Words like "slowly", "loudly", "carefully", "quickly", or "sadly" are all adverbs. Adverbs usually, but not always, end in "-ly". An adverb can also modify (describe) an adjective or another adverb. Adverb modifying a verb: He writes well Adverb modifying another adverb: He writes very well Adverb modifying an adjective: He is very well In the first two examples the word 'well' is an adverb. In the last example, it is an adjective. This is one example in which the same word can be both an adjective and an adverb but not in the same sentence. As a rule, the same word can play different roles but not in the same sentence. It all depends on what the word is doing in the sentence. It could be a noun, an adjective, an adverb, a verb, etc. Example: take the word 'cool'. In the sentence, "he walks cool", the word 'cool' is an adverb. In the sentence, "cool the hot dish", the word 'cool' is a verb. In the sentence, "it is a cool evening", the word 'cool' is an adjective. In the first example, "he walks cool", the word 'cool' really means 'coolly' as in "play it cool" (don't get excited; be calm). Adverb form. Most adverbs are formed by adding ly to the end of an adjective. To see 100 adjectives used in Basic English, click here --->: adjective  
Sunday	Sunday is one of the seven days of the week. It is part of the weekend, along with Saturday. Sunday is the day of worship for most Christians (for example, Easter is celebrated on Sunday). Sunday is the beginning of the week in the United States, but is the end of the week in the United Kingdom.  
Ottawa, Ontario	Ottawa is the capital of Canada and is part of the province of Ontario. It is south of the Ottawa River. The population in 2004 was about 808,391 people in the city itself. The region has about 1,146,790 people in it. The mayor of the city today (2006) is Larry O'Brien. It is located in the Ottawa Valley and is the fourth largest city in Canada. When one talks about Ottawa, it could also mean the highest government in Canada, and not its local government or the city. The cities of Ottawa, Kanata, Nepean, Gloucester and Vanier and the villages of Manotick and Rockcliffe Park joined in the year 2000 to form the new city of Ottawa. Ottawa also includes Orléans, which joined at that same time.  
News agency	A news agency is a kind of company. It supplies information to newspapers, radio and television. In the United Kingdom and some other countries a news agency or newsagent is a shop which sells newspapers, magazines and cigarettes.  
Mudguard	A mudguard is a part of a car, motorcycle or bicycle. People use it to keep mud, water or other objects from coming up onto the vehicle or person.  
Para rubber tree	A Para rubber tree (or simply, rubber tree) is the tree which naturally produces rubber. It is native from tropical areas from South America, in the Amazon (Brazil), but was spread by English farmers to the Far East. Para Rubber trees belong to the Euphorbiaceae family. In the wild they may reach heights of 100 to 125 ft (30-38 m) with large cylindrical trunks with or without buttresses. Crop trees reach a width of about 20 in. (50 cm), usually with a short bole, and with a sloped taper. When trees reach 5-6 years old, they are harvested. Their trunks are cut just deep enough to tap the vessels without harming the tree's growth, and the sap is collected in small buckets. This process is known as rubber tapping. Older trees produce more latex, but they stop producing it after 26-30 years.  
Safety curtain	A safety curtain is a curtain in theatre at the front of the stage. It is made of material that will not burn. The safety curtain may be lowered during the intermission and after the performance. A safety curtain is there in case there is a fire on stage. It will stop the fire from spreading to the auditorium where the audience sits.  
Safety lamp	A safety lamp is a miner's lamp with a covered flame that used to be used in coal mines. How it works. Coal mines are dangerous because of flammable gases like methane that can accumulate. A lamp with a naked (exposed) flame might ignite these flammable gases, causing an explosion, which might kill people. The safety lamp prevents the hot flame of the lamp touching the flammable gasses, reducing the chance of an explosion.  
Christmas stocking	A Christmas stocking is a long sock hung by a fireplace or bed on Christmas Eve. Christmas presents are put into it for children.  
List of Austrian football teams	These are the Austrian football teams and the leagues they played in for the 2007/08 season.  
2001	Year 2001 was a common year starting on Monday. It is the year after the year 2000 and the first year in the 21st century.  
Sex	Humans. A person's sex is either male or female. For example: John's sex is male. Mary's sex is female. This difference is sometimes called gender. Not all living things have a sex. There are not male or female germs or yeast. Only animals that make babies using an "ovum" and "sperm" have a sex. In humans, the sex of a person depends on what sex chromosomes that person has in his or her cells. All of a woman's ova already contain one X chromosome. A man's sperm contains either an X or a Y chromosome. When a sperm and ova combine to form a baby, the baby may get either of these chromosomes from its father. If the baby gets two X chromosomes, it will usually develop into a girl. If the baby gets one X and one Y, it will usually develop into a boy. There are exceptions to this rule, though. For example, sometimes a baby with XY chromosomes will not respond to the Y and develop as a girl. Before babies are born, they grow either male sex parts or female sex parts. Very few people grow none or both, but some do. It's hard for these people because they often feel sad about people seeing them as being different. These people can be called intersexed people or hermaphrodites. Sometimes, people feel that they are the other sex. For example, they have male sex parts but they feel like a woman. If they think really carefully about this, and think they should be the other sex, they can say they are a woman, and even get their sex parts changed to female sex parts. These people are called transgendered people.  
Hacksaw	A hacksaw is a tool for sawing. It holds the hacksaw blade at both ends and has a single handle. A hacksaw is useful for cutting out openings. It is also useful for cutting jigsaw puzzles. A hacksaw has small teeth and can cut metal.  
Spade	In gardening, a spade (shovel) is a tool. A spade is a particular kind of shovel made for digging. It has a pointed end and a straight handle. In some countries such as Australia the difference between a spade and a shovel is important. It is hard to move gravel with a spade but a proper shovel can do it. In game, a spade is one of the four shapes on playing cards. It is coloured black and not the one that looks like cross.  
Hoe	A hoe is a tool in farming and gardening. It has a blade, usually metal, attached to a long handle, usually wood. There are many types of blade, and a variety of uses, probably the most common of which is weeding. Along with the spade and fork, the hoe is considered a basic, essential hand farming implement.  
Shovel	A shovel is a tool used for digging. When it picks up the dirt, it makes a hole.  
Plunger	A plunger is a tool. It is used to get rid of things that are blocking pipes. The plunger is placed over one end of the pipe, and the handle is pushed up and down. Doing this creates a sucking force, which makes the thing blocking the pipe move.  
Ladder	A ladder is a tool. It is normally made of metal or wood, and people can climb it to reach high places. It has rungs on it, which are places for your feet to go when you are climbing.  
Oral history	Oral history is history that is told rather than written down. It is given through talking rather than reading a book. It is usually passed from generation to generation in order to explain events that have occurred. Though today oral history is not as popular as written history, it is still used in many places as a way of transferring knowledge about the past.  
Generation	A generation is often to mean the average amount of time between the birth of parents and the birth of their children. It is also used to mean all the people on one level of a family tree. For example, your brothers, sisters and cousins are in the same generation as you.  
Offspring	Offspring are the immediate descendants of a person, animal, or plant. It normally means all of them at once. A person's sons and daughters are their offspring. Sometimes people say children instead of offspring.  
Gene	Genes are a part of DNA. DNA is a collection of chemical information that carries all of the instructions for making all the proteins a cell will ever need. Each gene contains a single set of instructions. These instructions are usually thecoding for a particular protein. Half of a person's genes come from the mother. The other half come from the father. Genes are passed on from parent to child and are an important part of what decides the biological properties (how they look and act) of offspring (children). Genes affect the way our bodies work, including how we look. So our eye, hair and skin color is caused by genes. It is said that genes cause "genetic" effects in our bodies. Sometimes, a gene is 'dominant'. Sometimes, it is 'recessive'. What this means is that some genes have a better chance of showing up in a child. For example, let's say a mother has brown hair and a father has red hair. Brown hair is more common than red hair, so usually, the brown hair gene is going to be dominant and the red hair gene is going to be recessive. The dominant gene has a better chance of making it to the child, so if these parents have a child, it will probably have brown hair. But sometimes, the recessive gene makes it to the child. The child may have red hair. A recessive gene might stay hidden for many generations. Let's use the parents from last example. But, the mother's mother (the grandmother) has blonde (yellow) hair. This gene did not show up on the mother because the mother has brown hair. But, the child might have blonde hair! This is because the blonde gene was recessive in this family, but came back a generation later. This explains why a person might look different from their parents, but look like their grandparents or great grandparents.  
Alliteration	Alliteration is when a sentence or phrase has many words starting with the same letter. It is commonly used in advertising, poetry, headlines, and tongue-twisters. An example of alliteration is "Sally sold sea shells so she should sleep soundly so so so so sweet", and "Sally sold sea shells down by the sea shore".  
Homophone	Homophones are words that sound the same as another word but have a different meaning, and often a different spelling.  
Condensation	Condensation is the process in which water vapour changes into a water droplet or ice crystal. Condensation is an important part of the water cycle. Process. Condensation of water is when water turns from gas to a liquid or crystal shape. Any gas can condensate, usually at a low temperatures or high pressure. However, condensation can technically happen at any temperature, so long as the pressure of the condensing gas is more than than the pressure of the liquid state of that gas (both at the same temperature). Process in nature. Condensation is vital in nature and is always the same as temperature and vapour pressure in nature. This means that if there is a lot of condensation, the temperature goes up. Alternatively, if there is hardly any condensation, there will be a temperature loss. Process in industry. It is a process that can be useful to man. One use is in the creation of “new water” (drinkable water made from drinkable sources). Problems. However, since there is a temperature gain when a lot of condensation happens, the heat needs to be "removed", which can be troublesome and expensive.  
Precipitation	Precipitation is the water falling from clouds in liquid form or in solid form. Precipitation is water or ice falling to the Earth. Rain, snow, sleet, dew, frost, hail, and drizzle are all forms of precipitation. It is any product of the condensation of atmospheric water vapor that is left on the ground. It can be measured using a rain gauge. Precipitation is also a chemical reaction, when two or more solutions are mixed together and the product is insoluble a precipitate is formed. This is a precipitation reaction.  
Relative humidity	Relative humidity is the ratio between the partial pressure of water vapour in the air and the saturation vapour pressure of water vapour at that temperature. This is expressed as a percentage.  
Vitamin C	Vitamin C is a vitamin. It is also called ascorbic acid. It dissolves in water. It is found in fresh fruits and berries and green vegetables. Vitamin C helps wounds heal. Lack of vitamin C can cause a sickness called scurvy, where the gums in the mouth bleed easily and wounds won't heal. Lack of Vitamin C used to be a big health problem on long ocean trips by ship where supplies of fresh fruit were quickly used up. Many people would die from scurvy on such trips. Most animals can make their own vitamin C, but some animals cannot. Some of those which cannot make their own vitamin C, are guinea pigs, humans, and apes. Vitamin C was first found in 1928, and in 1932 it was proved to stop the sickness called scurvy. Through history the need for people to eat fresh plant food to help them get through long sieges or long sea trips was known by some wise people but was often forgotten. The first attempt to prove this idea was by a ship's doctor in the British Royal Navy called James Lind, who at sea in May 1747 gave some crew members lemon juice as well as their normal ships food, while others continued on normal food alone. The results showed that lemons prevented the disease. Lind wrote up his work and published it in 1753. Lind's work was slow to be noticed. It was 1795 before the British navy adopted lemon or lime juice as food for sailors. As well as lemons, limes and oranges; sauerkraut, salted cabbage, malt, and soup were tried with different effects. James Cook relied on sauerkraut to prevent the disease on his long voyages of exploration. It was believed that only humans got scurvy but in 1907, Alex Holst and Theodore Frohlich, two Norwegian chemists found that guinea pigs could also get it if not given fresh food. In 1928 the Arctic explorer Vilhjalmur Stefansson proved that Eskimo (Inuit) people are able to avoid scurvy with almost no plant food in their diet by eating raw meat. In 1912 the Polish American scientist Casimir Funk had the idea of the name of vitamins for the things present in food in small amounts which are essential to health. He named the unknown thing which prevented scurvy, Vitamin C. From 1928 to 1933, the Hungarian research team of Joseph L Svirbely and Albert Szent-Gyorgyi, and separately the American Charles Glen King, first took out vitamin C from food and showed it to be an acid they called ascorbic acid. In 1933/1934, the British chemists Sir Walter Norman Haworth and Sir Edmund Hirst, and separately the Polish Tadeus Reichstein, had success in making the vitamin. It was the first to be made by man. It then became possible to make lots of vitamin C cheaply in factories. Haworth was awarded the 1937 Nobel Prize for Chemistry for this work. In 1959 the American J.J. Burns showed that the reason why some animals get scurvy is because their liver cannot make just one chemical enzyme that all other animals have. Plant sources. Citrus fruits such as lime, lemon, orange, andgrapefruit) are good sources of vitamin C. Other foods that are good sources of vitamin C include papaya, broccoli, brussels sprouts, blackcurrants, strawberries, cauliflower, spinach, cantaloupe, green peppers, and kiwifruit. The following table is to give an idea of how much vitamin c there is in different plant foods. Each individual fruit will vary. The amount of vitamin C in foods of plant origin depends on the kind of plant, the kind of soil where it grew, how much rain and sun it got, the length of time since it was picked, and how it was stored since then. Animal sources. Most species of animals synthesise their own vitamin C. It is therefore not a vitamin for them. Synthesis in achieved through a sequence of enzyme driven steps, which convert glucose to ascorbic acid. It is carried out either in the kidneys, in reptiles and birds, or the liver, in mammals and perching birds. The loss of an enzyme concerned with ascorbic acid synthesis has occurred quite frequently in evolution and has affected most fish, many birds; some bats, guinea pigs and most but not all primates, including Man. The mutations have not been lethal because ascorbic acid is so prevalent in the surrounding food sources. It was only realised in the 1920s that some cuts of meat and fish are also a source of vitamin C for humans. The muscle and fat which make up the modern western diet are however poor sources. As with fruit and vegetables cooking destroys the vitamin C content. Artificial chemical synthesis. Vitamin C is produced from glucose by two main routes. The Reichstein process developed in the 1930s uses a single pre-fermentation followed by a purely chemical route. The more modern Two-Step fermentation process was originally developed in China in the 1960s, uses additional fermentation to replace part of the later chemical stages. Both processes yield approximately 60% vitamin C from the glucose feed. In 1934, the Swiss pharmaceutical company Hoffmann-La Roche was the first to mass produce synthetic vitamin C, under the brand name of Redoxon. Main producers today are BASF/ Takeda, Roche, Merck and the China Pharmaceutical Group Ltd of the People's Republic of China. Vitamin C deficiency. Lack of ascorbic acid in the daily diet leads to a disease Daily requirement. A healthy person on a balanced western diet should be able to get all the vitamin C needed to prevent the symptoms of scurvy from their daily diet. People who smoke, those under stress and women in pregnancy have a slightly higher requirement. High doses (thousands of mg) may result in diarrhoea, which is harmless if the dose is reduced immediately. Some researchers (Cathcart) claim the onset of diarrhoea to be an indication of where the body’s true vitamin C requirement lies. The small size of the ascorbic acid molecule means the kidneys cannot retain it in the body. Quite a low level in the blood serum will cause traces to be present in the urine. All vitamin C synthesising mammals have traces in the urine at all times. In April 1998 "Nature" reported alleged carcinogenic and teratogenic effects of excessive doses of vitamin C. This was given great prominence in the world's media. The effects were noted in test tube experiments and on only two of the 20 markers of free radical damage to DNA. They have not been supported by further evidence from living organisms. Almost all mammals manufacture their own vitamin C in amounts equivalent to human doses of thousands of milligrams per day. Large amounts of the vitamin are used in orthomolecular medicine and no harmful effects have been observed even in doses of 10,000 mg per day or more. Therapeutic uses. Vitamin C is needed in the diet to prevent scurvy. It also has a reputation for being useful in the treatment of colds and flu. The evidence to support this idea, however, is ambiguous and the effect may depend on the dose size and dosing regime. The Vitamin C foundation () recommends 8 grams of vitamin C every half hour in order to show an effect on the symptoms of a cold infection that is in progress. Vitamin C advocacy. Fred R. Klenner, a doctor in Reidsville, North Carolina reported in 1949 that poliomyelitis yielded to vitamin C. Nobel Prize winning chemist Linus Pauling began actively promoting vitamin C in the 1960s as a means to greatly improve human health and resistance to disease. A minority of medical and scientific opinion continues to see vitamin C as being a low cost and safe way to treat infectious disease and to deal with a wide range of poisons. A megadose of one-half gram per pound of body weight (one gram per kilogram of body weight) per day of sodium ascorbate salt has been found of theraputic use in both human and veterinary treatments. A meta-study into the published research on effectiveness of ascorbic acid in the treatment of infectious disease and toxins was conducted, in 2002, by Thomas Levy, Medical Director of the Colorado Integrative Medical Center in Denver. It claimed that overwhelming scientific evidence exists for its therapeutic role. Some vitamin C advocates say that vitamin C cannot be used therapeutically because it cannot now be patented. Pharmaceutical companies are unwilling to research or promote something that will make them little money.  
Dichlorphenolindophenol	DCPIP (its full name is "2,6-dichlorophenolindophenol") is a blue chemical used as a dye as when it is in its oxidized state it is blue. Information. Once reduced (by addition of electrons) it becomes colourless. This reaction can be reversed, and the colourless DCPIP will turn blue again, when it is oxidized. Purpose. DCPIP is often used to measure the electron transport chain in plants. It has a higher redox potential (electron affinity) than the Fe-S complex in cytochrome b and will therefore "steal" electrons from it. This means that cytochrome c does not receive them. The process cuts off the electron supply of photosystem I. A common way to illustrate this change is by the addition of vitamin C solution. This reduces the 'jelly' by transforming it to a colourless mass. This experiment can be carried out to illustrate the affect of changing cell sizes on SA/V (surface area:volume ratio). This is known as Titration.  
Healthy diet	A healthy diet or balanced diet is a diet (what you eat) that contains the right amounts of all the food substances. It includes fruit, vegetables, grains, dairy products, and protein. It does not include too much or too little of any kind of food.  
Dye	Dye is a substance used to color materials. It is often used to color the fabric used to make clothing.  
Poetry	Poetry is a type of art form and a type of literature. Poetry uses the qualities of words, in different ways, to be artistic. (Poetry can be as short, as a few words, or as long as a book (an epic)). There are many "poetic forms" (forms of poetry). Some of them are: Sonnet, Haiku, Ballad, Stev, Ode, Free verse, Blank verse, thematic, and nursery rhymes. Poetry can be used to describe(comparing, talking about, or expressing emotion) many things. It can make sense or be nonsense, it can rhyme or not. It can have many shapes and sizes; it can be serious, or it can be funny. "To say something poetically" means to give information in an artistic way.  
Literature	Literature is the collection of written works of a language, time, or culture. Literature can help tell the stories of a people's values or interests. Many people consider literature to be one of the best ways to learn about other cultures. Literature is usually the best books a country or culture has made. It is art with words. Literature can also mean imaginative or creative writing, which is looked at for its artistic value.  
Imagination	Imagination has to be primarily with the mind. It is the ability to form mental images of things or events. When someone "imagines" something he or she is trying to picture something in his/her mind that he/she has not experienced him/herself in reality. The word Imaginary is also used to describe something that you have Imagined in your Imagination. This is a very common word in English.  
Calorimeter	A calorimeter is an apparatus. It is used to measure the amount of energy contained in a particular substance. It may use a laser to determine the exact density of a solution.  
Bolus	In biology, a bolus (from the Latin word for "ball"), is a ball-shaped living thing. In medicine, a bolus" is a large amount of a drug given to patients to raise the blood level before treatment. A " bolus can also refer to a ball of food after it has been chewed. It passes down the oesophagus by peristalsis.  
Oesophagus	The oesophagus (also spelt esophagus and œsophagus), also called the gullet, is the part of the gastrointestinal system between the mouth and the stomach. The oesophagus is lined with muscle. This muscle pushes the food bolus (ball) down into the stomach. The esophagus can contract or expand to allow for the passage of food.  
Protease	A protease is an enzyme. It changes proteins into amino acids in the stomach.  
Dental floss	Dental floss is a thread. It is used for cleaning spaces between teeth which cannot be reached by toothbrushes. It is important to floss before brushing teeth and to floss at least once a day. Tooth brushing will not clean food that is packed between teeth. This 'food packing' can lead to unhealthy teeth and gums. Bacteria grow in this 'packed food' between teeth. This bacteria causes the surface of teeth (enamel) to break down. When a person first starts flossing, bleeding can happen. This is normal and happens because teeth and gums that are not flossed are less healthy. It will stop as the teeth and gums get healthier with flossing.  
Rickets	Rickets is a disease in young children. It is caused by lack of vitamin D and calcium. Rickets causes bigger gaps inside bones and turns them dry and spongy, it also makes a curve on the legs.Vitamin D is a fat soluble vitamin that is found in food and can also be made in your body after exposure to ultraviolet (UV) rays from the sun. Sunshine is a significant source of vitamin D because UV rays from sunlight trigger vitamin D synthesis in the skin by mehran The word "rickets" comes from the Greek word "rhakhis," which means "spine".  
Bile	Bile or gall is a green-yellow fluid. It is secreted from the liver of most vertebrate animals, and is often stored in the gall bladder. Bile helps digest fat. The name 'gall' comes of the Greek word "cholè" = green, yellow. The term cholesterol and the illness cholera were named after gall.  
Dental pulp	The dental pulp is the part in the center of a tooth. It is made up of living soft tissue and cells. It is surrounded by dentine and contains nerves and blood vessels.  
Protoplasm	Protoplasm is the living substance that make up a cell. In plant cells, it is surrounded by a cell wall. In animal cell, the whole cell is made of protoplasm, surrounded by a cell membrane. Protoplasm in living beings is made up of about 75-80 percent water.  
Amylase	Amylase is an enzyme. It is found in saliva and pancreatic juice. It can break down starch into maltose.  
Variegated leaf	A variegated leaf is a leaf which contains green and non green parts. As the green parts contain chlorophyll they can photosynthesise, but the non green parts do not contain chlorophyll so they can not photosynthesise. Uses. A variegated leaf is useful in conducting experiments that can show that chlorophyll is needed for photosynthesis. Experiments. The easiest of these experiments is to place the leaf in boiling ethanol (alcohol) and when drained of colour spread out on a flat surface. Soak the leaf in iodine and the green parts will turn blue/black and the non green parts will stay the yellowish brown colour of iodine. The green parts contained starch (a more compact form of glucose) which made the iodine turn blue/black.  
Seam ripper	A seam ripper is a cutting tool. It is used for removing stitches in sewing and cutting open buttonholes made on a sewing machine. Sometimes it is also called a thread ripper. The tool usually has a handle, shaft, and head. The head has two points: one flattened to form a pointed blade and the other forming a small point. To use a seam ripper to remove sewn threads, the blade is placed underneath the thread to be cut. The thread slips down between the two points, and the tool is then lifted upwards allowing the blade to cut through the thread. Then the loose thread ends can be removed.  
Plaque	Plaque is a sticky, white film or fluid on the teeth. It is a mixture of bacteria and food. It causes tooth decay.It is very harmful for teeth.  
Pin cushion	A pin cushion is small cushion used for holding pins and needles. It is used so that the pins and needles are stored safely and can be taken out by pulling the head.  
Chemical cell	A chemical cell converts chemical energy into electrical energy. Most batteries are chemical cells. A chemical reaction takes place inside the battery and causes electric current to flow. There are two main types of batteries - those that are "rechargeable" and those that are not. A battery that is not recharageable will give electricity until the chemicals in it are used up. Then it is no longer useful. A rechargeable battery can be "recharged" by passing electric current backwards through it; it can then be used again to produce more electricity. Batteries come in many shapes and sizes, from very small ones used in watches and cameras, to those used in cars or even larger ones.  
Das Lied der Deutschen	Das Lied der Deutschen ("The Song of the German people"), also known as Das Deutschlandlied, ("The Song of Germany"), is a song written by Joseph Haydn and Hoffmann von Fallersleben. Part of this song is the national anthem of Germany (German National Anthem). A line from this song, "Einigkeit und Recht und Freiheit" ("Unity and justice and freedom") is the motto of Germany. History. The music was written by Haydn in 1797 as the anthem of Austria. It was called "Gott erhalte Franz den Kaiser" ("God protect our Emperor Franz"). The words which are used today were written by the poet August Heinrich Hoffman von Fallersleben in 1841. Today, the first line "Germany, Germany above all" sounds too strong for some people, and is often misunderstood. Fallersleben wanted a united Germany when he wrote it. At that time, Germany was not one country, but many small countries. So "Germany above all" meant that the most important thing to do was to have a unified Germany. Also, the poet was in Heligoland, where people spoke German but were ruled by the British. Fallersleben's music was very popular in Germany during the second part of the 19th century. This song was not a national anthem then, but a song for people who loved the idea of a strong and united Germany. In 1918, it replaced the anthem of the German Empire "Heil Dir im Siegerkranz" ("Praise to the war-winner"), when the Emperor Wilhelm II lost power at the end of the First World War. In 1921, a "fourth stanza", a new part or verse, was written by poet Albert Matthai with words about the difficult life in Germany at that time. It was not sung very often. During the time of Hitler, only the first part of the song was used. This was often followed by a Nazi party song. This part of the song was difficult for some people who were not Germans because it has words describing Germany as a country that included land that was in other countries. After the Second World War, Germany was divided into two countries. In 1949, the new Western Germany tried to get a new song for the national anthem. Another song was chosen, written by poet Rudolf Alexander Schröder. It was not very popular. Finally, the third part of the Fallersleben song was made into the national anthem. In the other part of Germany, the Eastern Germany, the words of poet Johannes R. Becher ("Auferstanden aus Ruinen" - "Re-built from the Ruins") were used with a song written by Hanns Eisler. It was not very popular, and from the 1970s the words were not sung, because of the line "Germany, [our] unified fatherland". After East and West Germany united again in 1990, the Fallersleben song again became the national anthem of Germany but only the third part is used. Today, the first part of the song is popular with nationalist extremists. Third stanza - the German National Anthem. __NOTOC__  
Cavity	A cavity is a hole.  
Evidence	Evidence is something that is used to support an argument. It gives examples of why something is true. For example, if someone come across a cup of spilled milk, that person could look for evidence as to how the milk was spilled. If hairs of a cat and paw prints were found on the ground, they could be evidence that suggested that a cat was the cause of the spilled milk.  
